The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Lagos Zonal office, on
Thursday, November 28, 2019 arraigned the duo of Kayode Phillip and Hamza
Koudeih before Justice Muslim S. Hassan of the Federal High Court, sitting in
Ikoyi, Lagos on a 25-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering. The
defendants, who are high-valued targets in Organized Cyber Syndicate Network,
OCSN, were arrested for their alleged involvement in various cyber crimes and
money laundering. One of
the count reads: “That you, Kayode Phillip (a.k.a Voice of the King) and Hamza
Koudeih (a.k.a. HK) sometime in May, 2019 within the jurisdiction of this
Honourable Court conspired among yourselves to commit an offence to wit:
conversion of the aggregate sum of $7, 069, 000 (Seven Million, Sixty-Nine
Thousand United States Dollars), £1, 000, 000 (One Million Pounds) and €80,000
(Eighty Thousand Euro), which sum you reasonably ought to have known form part
of the proceeds of fraud and you thereby committed an offence contrary to
Sections 18 (a), 15 (2)(d) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2015 and
punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act.” The
defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against them by the
Commission. In
view of their pleas, the prosecution counsel, Abass Mohammed, prayed the court
for a trial date and asked that the defendants be remanded in Correctional
Service custody as the
detention facilities of the EFCC custody had been over-stretched. Counsel
to the first defendant, Oladele Falana, however, informed the court that he had
filed a bail application on behalf of his client and served same on the
prosecution today. He,
therefore, craved the indulgence of the court for the earliest date possible to
hear the application. Counsel
to the second defendant, Abdullahi Mohammed, told the court that an application
for bail had been filed and served on the prosecution. Mohammed
further urged the court to hear the application and grant the prayers therein,
adding that “My client has hinted that he prefers to go to the prison custody
and that he will not be opposing the applications of the prosecution.” Though
the prosecution counsel, Mohammed, told the court that he had yet to receive a
copy of the second defendant’s application for bail, he conceded to the
defendant being remanded in prison custody. Consequently,
Justice Hassan adjourned the matter to December 5, 2019 for bail
hearing and ordered that the defendants be remanded in the Nigerian
Correctional Service custody. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.