The Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyeson Wike, has endorsed
the Interim Management Committee of the Niger Delta Development Commission,
NDDC, inaugurated on November 5 by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator
Godswill Akpabio. Governor Wike spoke yesterday during a courtesy visit at the
Rivers State Government House, Port Harcourt, by members of the new management,
led by the NDDC Acting Managing Director, Gbene Dr Joi
Nunieh. The NDDC Chief Executive Officer was
accompanied by the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Chief
Ibanga Bassey Etang; the Acting Executive Director, Projects, Dr. Cairo
Ojougboh and other directors of the Commission. Wike congratulated members of the Management Committee,
stating: “As a true Rivers person, I cannot do anything that is against the
interest of Rivers State. Political affiliations come secondary. What matters
to me is the development of Rivers State. “The Members of the Interim Management Committee are all
from the Niger Delta region. So why can’t we support them.” He declared: “The governors of the Niger Delta States met
with Mr. President. We told him that there must be a surgical operation in
NDDC. So we support the forensic audit as ordered by the President.” The Rivers State Governor said that the fight over political
appointments by Niger Delta people was unnecessary, noting that what the people
need was development. “I feel ashamed that our people cannot come together and
agree on development strategies,” he said. Wike stated: “The appointment of the Interim Management is
purely an executive function. There is no reason for our people to be fighting
over it. I will protect anything that has to do with Rivers State. I will not
support anybody asking that the Interim Management Committee should be removed.” He advised: “If you have the capacity and the political
will, you can right the wrongs in the NDDC. I urge you to use this opportunity
given to you to put NDDC on the right track.” Governor Wike said that the founding fathers of NDDC had
lofty goals for the development of the region but regretted that the Commission
was yet to achieve set objectives. He charged the Commission to embark on legacy project in the
region in partnership with state governments. In her remarks, the NDDC Acting MD, Dr Nunieh, told the
governor that the new management of the NDDC was determined to partner with the
governors of the Niger Delta region. She said: “We want to assure you that the interim management
will work with you and plead that you let go of what has happened in the past
to ensure that we work harmoniously in the interest of the Niger Delta people.” The NDDC boss appealed to the governor to encourage a
collaboration between the Commission and the Rivers State Government. She
observed: “We have just inspected one of our warehouses and we found two
medical boats that were meant for communities in Rivers State. They are waiting
to be collected by the state government.” Nunieh said that the NDDC would like to work with the
medical team in the state ministry of health to manage the primary health
centres in the rural communities and give the rural people access to medical
services. She told the governor that NDDC had built comprehensive
health centres at Eneka in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area but regretted that
it was illegally occupied and vandalised. A similar fate, she said befell other
cottage hospitals built by the Commission in Eleme and Ogba-Egbema Local
Government areas. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.