The
just concluded November 16 governorship election both Kogi and Bayelsa state was
expected to provide an opportunity to improve on the 2019 general elections;
but unfortunately it  provided a pointer
to the infamous 2007 general elections. The 2007 poll was adjudged by both
domestic and international observation mission as one “that fell short of
basic international and regional standards for democratic elections and cannot
be regarded as credible, free and fair”. 
The  elections were deeply flawed due to poor
organization, lack of transparency, widespread procedural irregularities,
significant evidence of fraud, particularly during the result collation
process, voter disenfranchisement at different stages of the process and lack
of equal conditions for contestants.” It
is shameful that twelve years after, the same description is used by both
International and domestic observers to describe the Kogi and Bayelsa 2019
governorship election. It can be recalled that about a year ago, during
President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2018 Easter message to citizens, he mentioned that
“the dark days of Nigeria’s elections being manipulated by violence and rigging by
corrupt politicians and their agents are over. They
are confined to the dustbin of history where they rightly belong. I remain committed to bequeathing a legacy of
supremacy of the people’s will through the ballot box”. In
reality, the presidents’ statement seems to be words embellished with mere
rhetoric – probably uttered with good intentions but are obviously without any substance
of truth. We need to understand that an election is a stakeholder’s affair, it
is only legitimized when the electorates are provided with mechanisms that
allow them to freely choose who governs them. It is the desire of Nigerians
that our election process are drenched with all the variants of integrity and
fairness, however, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),
Security agencies and the political parties, unfortunately, did not pass the
minimum quotient of integrity in the elections. To
Nigeria and her watchers, the November 2019 governorship elections presented an
opportunity for INEC to redeem her image, but unfortunately, the commission
fell short of the citizen’s expectations. INEC is saddle with the
constitutional responsibility of conducting free and fair elections in Nigeria,
but there is a regression in the quality of elections held since 2015 – with
the 2019 election shabbily conducted and ended with many petitions currently
ongoing in courts. Elections
are a cogent part of the people’s fundamental Human Rights, more specifically
civil and political rights, and a pillar of democratic societies. Citizens
elect their leaders or representatives, and these elected officials are
accountable to the citizens who elected them to that office of power. However,
the show of shame displayed by  political
parties during the just concluded elections raises the question if the public
office is to serve the people or to enrich the pockets of the ones called to
serve. The polls were replete with ballot box snatching, destruction of
electoral materials, voter suppression, arson, maiming, all orchestrated by
armed thugs. For
instance, over six people were killed in Lokoja, Dekina, and Ayetoro, Kogi
state while in Bayelsa state, armed thugs were imported from outside the state
with a mission to  harass, beat, and coerce
innocent citizens who came out to lawfully exercise their franchise.
Journalists, local and international observers were not left out of the
assault. All these infractions on the fundamental rights of citizens were
carried out in the full glare of the security agents. The
men of the security agencies whose duty is to protect citizens either scampered
for safety or collaborated with the armed thugs and their paymasters. Several
videos and reports are circulating the social spaces showing security officials
carting away ballot boxes. It is crucial to point out that there is no report
of a single arrest made during the chaotic elections. The
politicians have now perfected their citizen-mandate-stealing through violence
and the deployment of thugs to disrupt voting processes oblivious of the fact
that the process through which an elected leader emerges determines his or her
legitimacy.  The case where politicians muscled
their way to power through illegitimate means does not uphold the tenet of true
and liberal democracy. The just-concluded elections have also provided
explanations for the insecurity the country has experienced over the years.  The thugs armed by the politicians are often
the ones who resort to armed robbery, kidnapping and other vices when there are
no elections to steal. The
activities experienced and reported in the Kogi and Bayelsa election speaks’
for itself, just so aptly put by a famous Latin phrase, Res Ipsa Loquitor, “the
fact speaks for itself” – these facts speak so loud and clear. INEC must
do the needful as advised by different observer groups who observed the election
process in both states, in other to redeem the confidence of citizens in the
commission.  The two dominant parties,
the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC)
should note that Nigerians are watching. 
They are on the path of truncating the most extended period of
uninterrupted democracy the country has ever experienced.  History will not judge them well, and
Nigerians will hold them to account one day soon. Olabisi
Malik was part of YIAGA AFRICA’s election observation mission in Kogi state Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.