Lagos State Governor, Mr.
Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday, visited Martins Street on the Lagos Island to
sympathise with Balogun Market traders, following an inferno that completely
razed a five-storey building in the market on Tuesday. Although, there was no
casualty in the fire incident that gutted the building accommodating scores of
clothing shops, traders lost materials worth millions of Naira in the inferno. Sanwo-Olu identified with
those whose shops were razed, but called for calm as Government’s emergency
response team made efforts to salvage other valuables left in the building. The Governor, however, said
the fire incident brought out the need for total regeneration of Lagos Island
to prevent incidents that could endanger the lives of residents. The move,
Sanwo-Olu added, would include a meeting with owners of some abandoned
high-rise buildings dotting the area for possible use of the property. Besides, he said the
Government would be conducting integrity test on all buildings in the Central
Business District (CBD) on Lagos Island, adding that his administration would
re-visit the regeneration master plan already designed by previous
administrations. He urged all families that own property on the Lagos Island to
support the move. Sanwo-Olu said: “This fire
incident presents discussion for complete regeneration of Lagos. Here, we have
a lot of buildings as old as a century. Now is the time to look into the master
plan for complete regeneration of entire area. All families must support our
move to start the regeneration. “We also have abandoned
high-rise buildings on the Island and we have done audit of all these
buildings. We need to have conversation with the owners on how we can put the
abandoned property to better use. There are a lot of traders who wish to take
away their wares from the road and occupy these abandoned building. We need to
talk the owners and reach an agreement on a scheme that would make traders use
the abandoned property.” Sanwo-Olu condemned the
hazardous and unsafe conditions created by some traders, who used heavy
generating set on topmost floors of multiple-storey buildings in the market.
The Governor said the integrity test to be embarked on by the Government would
ensure enforcement of structural codes to desist traders from creating
condition that would endanger lives and property. The Governor also said
administration would build the Phase II of the Oluwole Modern Market to
discourage street trading. The market, he said, would eliminate incidents of
fire and other hazards associated with uncoordinated trading. Sanwo-Olu said the State
could not longer tolerate recklessness in market allocations by officials of
Local Government Area, disclosing that he had called for an emergency meeting
with council chairmen for discussion on shop allocations across markets within
the State. He said: “I have summoned
an emergency meeting with all Local Government Areas chairmen later today. We
cannot condone reckless approach in which shops are located to people in manner
that is not coordinated. When problems arise, it comes back to State
Government. We will not fold our arms and wait for disasters like this to
repeat itself.” The Governor said the fire
incident should serve as a pointer to us on the need to place high premium on
safety of lives and wares in market place. He said the Government would hasten
up its discussion with electricity distribution companies for regular power
supply to markets. Sanwo-Olu promised that the
Government would support traders whose means of livelihood were destroyed in
the incident. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.