All players in the broadcasting
value chain from equipment  manufacturers to content providers are being
affected by the  impact of rapid evolution of broadcast technology and the
growth of broadband internet access. These
developments demand higher  technical quality with improved coverage and
improved efficient  utilization of spectrum from regulators, who have to
be strong and  efficient in their drive to deliver bespoke first in class
broadcast  services. The need, therefore, of commensurate technical
capacity  and knowhow cannot be over emphasized. Regulation both on international and
regional levels require high  technical skills and knowledge in order to
manage frequency  spectrum and in particular decisions adopted at high
levels of ITU (International Telecommunications
Union), which is a United  Nations specialized agency formed to
“facilitate international  connectivity in communications
networks”. Frequency spectrum is  allocated globally by ITU and it
also develops technical standards   to
ensure standardization in the ICT world. As we are now in the age of
Information Communication and  Technology (ICT), it is apposite to take a
close look at the meaning  of the term ICT. The term ICT is made up of
Information Technology (IT) which relates to Computer Hardware, Software and
Peripherals; and Communications Technology which involves Telecommunications
and Broadcasting. The current use of the term ICT is firmly established and it
implies corresponding physical moves towards the convergence of service and
technologies. In particular Telecommunications and Broadcasting  can today
use the same technology for transmission e.g.  Information Protocol (IP)
Technology, Fibre Optic Cable, Very  Small Aperture Terminals (VSATs) and
Radio. Furthermore, transmission and
frequency control are coordinated using information technology hardware and
software like  Computers and Software Programmes. In line with the above, Governments the world over are also  ‘getting with
the Programme’ by making their policies and  administration fit into an
ICT or convergence model; whereby the Broadcasting, Information Communications
and Postal Services  are under the same Ministry and or, are regulated by
the same super regulatory Body, albeit called by varying names. Let’s look at the ICT Industry
supervising structure of some  Countries that pioneered the development of
ICT as well as  Countries with comparable levels of development to
Nigeria: * The United States of America
‘Federal Communications  Commission’ FCC regulates both International and
local  Communications by Radio, Television, Wire, Satellite and
Cable and is responsible for implementing
and enforcing America’s  Communications Law and regulations. It is an
independent U.S. Government Agency overseen by Congress. * The United Kingdom has it’s Office
of Communications  Ofcom established in 2003 to replace Organizations,
namely  Oftel, the ITC, the Radio Authority, the Radiocommunications
Agency and the Broadcasting Standards Commission. This includes Spectrum
Management and Auctioning. In addition, since 2011 it took over Postcomm’s
functions to include  regulation of postal services. Along with 45 other
Public Bodies  Ofcom supports the Department for Digital, Culture, Media
&  Sport (DCMS). * In Malaysia The Malaysian
Communications and Multimedia  Commission (MCMC) regulates the
Communications and  Multimedia Industries based on the powers provided in
the Malaysian Act 1998 and Strategic
Trade Act 2010. Apart from  pursuing the Government’s policy objectives
for the Sectors,  MCMC oversees the new regulatory framework for the converging Telecommunication and
Broadcasting Industries and  online activities. In 2001 Postal Services
and licensing under the  1991 Act and the Certification Authorities under
the Digital Signature Act 1997 were added. * Nearer home, under it’s Ministry
of Communication and  Technology Ghana has its National Communications
Authority (NCA), which has the responsibility
of regulating  Telecommunications, Frequency Spectrum, Broadcasting  Authorization,
Amateur Radio Licencing, Numbering, Standards  & Clearance, Schedule
of Fees amongst others. *South Africa has its Independent
Communications Authority of  South Africa (ICSA). It was established in
July 2000 by merging  the Telecommunications Regulator, the South
African Telecommunications Regulatory Authority
(SATRA) and the  Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA). In 2005 the
Postal Regulator was included.We can go on and on with scenarios in numerous
countries but for  the constraint of space in this short position paper. This trend enables Countries to fully take advantage of convergence and
its underlying concomitant benefits. A single  knowledgeable and agile
Agency is ideal and more likely to bring  about policies, activities,
infrastructure and an enabling  environment such as shared media and spectrum
or facilitate  services in underserved and unserved areas to bridge the
digital divide. In Nigeria we still have separate Regulators for the Broadcasting and
Telecommunications Industries. Worse still, they are under separate
Ministries. Again, we need to ask the nagging question..”why Nigeria is
still lagging behind”? Why are we not conforming with this obvious
global trend? Thankfully though our visionary President Muhammadu Buhari has gone one step
towards convergence by renaming the  Communications Ministry as the
Ministry of Communications and  Digital Economy. A development that is
quite commendable and apt. Government needs to however take the
next bold step of moving  the NBC from its current misfit stead, into a
single super  regulatory Body for Broadcasting and Telecommunications
Sectors under the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy This would automatically put Nigeria
in step with universal best practices and prevailing trends, as we have
seen in the examples mentioned above. The move would also position the NBC in a
better environment  than it is presently, to tackle the challenges of
ongoing Digital Switch Over (DSO). It is imperative to note that Nigeria has significant deadlines issues  with
this exercise and thus must take steps to ensure success this  time
around. The success of the DSO is not negotiable as it would be of enormous
economic benefit to the country and would also be greatly impactful on the
quality of broadcasting services made  available to the citizens at large;
not to mention its job creation  potentials. In conclusion, domiciling NBC and
its activities, especially the  ongoing DSO, in the Information and
Culture Ministry is a gross  misplacement.It portends danger that could be
of grave consequences if the  needful is not done immediately. KAYODE AHMADU B.Sc (Hons) Physics, 1981 – Jos M.Sc Physics/Electronics, 1986 – Jos LCOR Harvard Business School,
Massachusetts USA Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing. Looking for powerful online promotion that isn’t full of BS? I apologize for sending you this message on your contact form but actually that was kinda the point. We can send your promotional copy to sites through their contact pages just like you’re getting this note right now. You can target by keyword or just fire off mass blasts to sites in the location of your choice. So let’s say you’re looking to blast an ad to all the interior decorators in the USA, we’ll scrape websites for only those and post your ad text to them. Providing you’re promoting a product or service that’s relevant to that business category then you’ll get an awesome result! Shoot me a reply to poppy8542bro@gmail.com to get info and prices