By Chimezie Godfrey The Committee of Chief Medical Directors
and Medical Directors of Federal Tertiary hospitals have called for the urgent
release of funds for payment of outsourced services in federal tertiary
hospitals in the country. The committee made this call as part
of its resolutions at the end of its 5th annual general meeting on Friday in
Abuja, adding that the funds will enhance security, cleaning, ancillary
essential services and creation of a budget line for sustainability of these
payments. According to Dr. Jaff Momoh the
Chairman, Committee of Chief Medical Directors and Medical Directors, Federal
Tertiary Hospitals, the committee observed that there is none release of funds
for the payment of outsourced services to all the federal tertiary hospitals
with increasing threat to security and possible disruption to the provision of
services in tertiary hospitals. Momoh acknowledged the effort of the
federal government towards the implementation of the residency training act of
2017. He  however noted that no
budgetary provision have been provided for implementation of this act in 2019. He  further said that they also
observed the difficulties faced by tertiary hospitals in obtaining approvals,
waivers, and financial clearance for the recruitment of exited staffs,
particularly clinical staffs, among  other challenges. In the light of the above critical
observations, the committee came up with various recommendations that it hoped
will help in assisting the federal government address the numerous challenges
facing the health sector in Nigeria. “We call for urgent release of
funds for the payment of outsourced services in federal tertiary hospitals in
order to enhance security, cleaning, ancillary essential services, and creation
of a budget line for sustainability of these payments. “We urge the federal government
to ensure full implementation of the residency training act of 2017 with
payment of the accrued arrears. “The federal government should
review upward and ensure the prompt release of overheads for the federal
tertiary hospitals for proper accountability and smooth running of the
hospitals. “The process of seeking
approval for replacement of exiting staffs especially clinical staffs should be
simplified and made expeditious so that services will not be disrupted. “The multiplicity of court
cases between the federal tertiary  hospitals should all be harmonized and
spearheaded by the federal Ministry of health for prompt resolution. “The federal government should
fully equip and support the national cardiac centre for excellent at the
University of Nigerian teaching hospital, Enugu, optimally as an immediate
response to the rising cases of cardiac diseases and deaths. “While effort is being to
develop cardiac centres and cardiac laboratories in every geo-political zones
of the federation,” he said. Dr Momoh pointed out that the joint
meeting between the ICPC and representatives of the Committee of Chief
Executive of Federal Tertiary hospitals, the Federal Ministry of Health, the
Federal Ministry of Finance, the Budget office of the federation and the office
of the Accountant General of the federation addressed the issues raised by ICPC
regarding the personnel budget of some of the federal tertiary hospitals. The committee meeting which was
attended by the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Emmanuel Ehanire ended with the
election of a new exco which includes the Chairman, Dr. Jack Momoh, the Vice
Chairman and secretary, Dr. Abdullahi Ibrahim. Others are the treasurer, Dr. Yahaya
Baba Àdamu, the representative of federal teaching hospitals on the exco, and
Dr Emmem Bassy, representative of federal medical centres.