By Chimezie Godfrey The Nigeria Civil Society Situation
Room has called for the cancellation of the entirety of the Kogi state
elections conducted Saturday 16th November, 2019. Clement Nwankwo, the Convener,
Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, who stated this during a press 
briefing on Sunday at Abuja, disclosed that the governorship elections
conducted in Kogi and Bayelsa  states represent a major setback for
Nigeria’s electoral democracy. Nwankwo said the Situation Room
received reports of late commencement of polls in several polling units across
the two states of Bayelsa and Kogi. He lamented that the violence
witnessed in the two states were unprecedented, alarming and raised questions
about the credibility of the elections, adding that this is contrary to expectations
of Nigerians who thought  that lessons
learnt from the 2019 general elections would translate to improvement in
conduct of these elections. He pointed out that the INEC also
raised concern that the security services attached to support the elections did
not provide back up to enable some of its staff start out at the stipulated
time, adding that t his resulted in several delays. Other concerns that he raised were
issues bordering on lack of adequate logistics in terms of provision of
security for transportation of election materials to their destinations, among
others. In the light of the above and other
critical concerns in the conduct of elections in both states, especially in
Kogi state, the Situation Room called for the cancellation of the entirety of
the elections in Kogi state. “Situation Room is disappointed
with conduct of the two governorship elections that held in Kogi and Bayelsa
states and worries that the elections fall below the standards expected for a
free and credible elections. “With particular reference to
the elections in Kogi state, the level of violence perpetrated by the two major
political parties and politicians, evident sometimes in the collision with
security personnel, seriously undermined the elections, deterred voters and
made the exercise a farce. “Accordingly, Situation Room is
calling for the cancellation of the entirety of the Kogi state elections
conducted on 16 November, 2019. “The Kogi state election
represents a major dent to Nigeria’s democratic process,” Nwankwo said. He also decried the high level
of violence perpetrated by political parties in collusion with security
personnel in the governorship elections of Bayelsa state, adding that this has
resulted in what he called ‘community voting’ He explained that community voting
is a practice whereby political parties controlling particular areas compel
overwhelming votes in favour of their party. He therefore called on INEC to fully
interrogate the elections in Beyalsa state with a view to identifying the high
incidences of malpractice that took place and reflect the genuine vote of the
people. “In the light of the security
failures, violence, thuggery and general abuse witnessed in the elections,
Situation Room calls for urgent passage and implementation of an electoral
offences commission law to address all issues related to electoral abuse,”
he said. The Situation Room is made of Civil
Society Organizations (CSOs) working in support of credible and transparent
elections in Nigeria and  includes such groups as Policy and Legal
Advocacy Center (PLAC), CLEEN Foundation, YIAGA Africa, CISLAC, and Action Aid
Nigeria, among others. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.