Former Chief of Army Staff
(COAS),  Gen. Azubike Ihejirika,  disclosed that he was able to
tackle insecurity, especially the Boko Haram terrorists during his tenure by
increasing the strength of the Nigerian Army in the span of three years. The ex army chief said with the
strategy employed, the problem of insecurity was rapidly detected, which led to
the prevention of a major problem that would have increased the challenges of
insecurity that the country is currently being confronted with. Ihejirika stated this at the weekend
in Abuja at a Reunion and Gala Night of 18 Regular Course of the Nigerian Army
at the weekend in Abuja. “We were able to identify the
nature of and complexity of the problem, we went ahead to quickly increased the
strength of the army by 25 percent in the span of three years”, he said. He added, “Without that, it
would have been a major issue because of several commitment both internally and
externally when Nigerian Army was involved in foreign operations.” Speaking further on his major
achievement during his tenure, Ihejirika said the Nigerian Army Language
Institute (NALI) was established at Ovim in Isuikwuato Local Government Area of
Abia State saying it was aimed at facilitating the integration of the Nigerian
Army  with other neighboring countries. “The idea was to give Nigerian
Army the capacity to collaborate with other countries. Nigerian being a nation
surrounded by francophone countries and with time, other languages will be
taught”, he explained. He added that he also established
the institute to help Nigerian soldiers on peace keeping mission to fluently
communicate after observing the poor nature of communication between the
Nigerian soldiers and their colleagues from neighbouring non-English-speaking
countries. The former COAS said the Nigerian
Army as part of his mandate, has set different languages as parts of the
criteria for junior officers to be promoted. He said, ” with time , other
Languages of interest will be taught but it is important to note that since the
army has gone further to make different languages parts of the requirements for
the promotion of junior officers.” Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.