After years of painstaking research and meticulous planning,
NNPC Retail Limited, the Downstream Subsidiary of the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation in charge of retail sales and marketing of petroleum
products, Thursday in Abuja, commenced a promising entry into the lubricant
market with the unveiling of a broad range of high performance engine oils to
provide better options to customers across the country. The package has on offer Nitro (Diamond, Gold, Super, 2T) and Nitro
Super 40, all designed for petrol-power engines, while the diesel propelled
engines have the Rhino (Rhino HD40 & Rhino X) engine oils. The event which took place at the Amphitheatre
of the NNPC Towers in Abuja was presided over by Mallam Mele Kyari, Group
Managing Director of the Corporation, in the presence of highly elated crowd
made up of management and staff of NNPC Retail Limited as well as dealers and
representatives of the 380 NNPC Downstream subsidiary company’s outlets across
Nigeria. Unveiling the products, Mallam Kyari said the
entry of NNPC into the lubricant market was to ensure that the corporation opened
up new areas of revenue generation while ensuring stakeholders reaped
bountifully from the participation of the corporation in the entire value chain
of the Oil and Gas Industry. The GMD said NNPC Retail Limited had a history
of accuracy, saying when it sold a litre of product, the customers actually got
a litre. He stated that overtime, the company had built
trust in customers, expressing the expectation that it would not only maintain
the trust, but also carried it into the lubricant business to give Nigerians
value for money. He assured that the NNPC would continue
to provide the needed support and encouragement to its Retail unit to keep up
the required standards and fulfil its mandate and obligation to stakeholders. Engr. Yemi Adetunji, Chief Operating Officer,
Downstream, whose unit superintends the operations of NNPC Retail Limited,
expressed confidence that the entry of the company into the engine oil market
would provide refreshing options to customers. He informed that the new
products have all the required ISO certification, noting that the company would
take full advantage of its massive outreach across Nigeria to push the products
to all corners of the country. He said the coming of NNPC lubricants would
bring prosperity to all stakeholders. “Its prosperity for our partners, prosperity
for NNPC Retail Limited, prosperity for NNPC and prosperity for all Nigerians
who now have a product they can truly call their own,’’ he said. In his remarks, Sir. Billy Okoye, Managing
Director of NNPC Retail Limited, said though the products had been in the
offing for such a long period, the wait was worthwhile because NNPC Retail
Limited took advantage of the period to consolidate research on the lubricant. He informed that come February next year, the
lubricants would be available in all the 774 Local Government Areas in Nigeria,
declaring that dealers and stakeholders have been fully mobilized in this
regard. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.