The Force Commander of the
Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) , Major General Ibrahim Manu Yusuf on
Tuesday  visited troops of the Task Force
in Mora and Fatokol in the Republic of Cameroun and Wulgo in Nigeria. According to a statement signed by Colonel
Timothy Antigha,Chief of Military Public Information,MNJTF,N’Djamena, Chad, the
visit was in continuation of the Force Commander’s familiarization tour of
MNJTF formations. Addressing officers and soldiers in
Mora, the Headquarters of Sector One and other locations (Fatokol and Wulgo),
Major General Yusuf thanked the Commander Sector One, Brigadier General Boubba
Dobekreo for facilitating a harmonious working relationship between his troops
and their counterparts from Nigeria. He urged other Sector Commanders to
emulate Brigadier General Dobekreo’s defence diplomacy, as that is the first
step towards  building a resilient
coalition necessary to finally defeat Boko Haram. Speaking further, the Force
Commander  commended Sector One for their
untiring efforts in ensuring good civil military relations. He noted that
protecting civilians and their property from Boko Haram is one sure way of
winning their confidence and trust and ultimately their support. “If you
lose the local population you have lost the war”, Major General Yusuf
added. While in the Sector Headquarters, the Force Commander visited the
hospital where both soldiers and civilians on admission are provided free
medicare by the Sector. In Wulgo, the Force Commander
commended officers and soldiers for their dedication and patriotism. He paid
tribute to the gallant officers and soldiers who have paid the supreme price.
He assured that their sacrifices would not be in vain. The Force Commander
hinted that troops  welfare would remain his top priority. Earlier in his brief, Brigadier
General Dobekreo congratulated the Force Commander on his appointment. He
recalled their partnership during Force Commander’s tour of duty in 7 Division
and assured him of similar cooperation throughout his tour as Force Commander. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.