Nigeria’s foremost  human
rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana SAN has called on the African leaders  to
suspend the Kingdom of Morocco from the African Union over the illegal
occupation of parts of the territory of Western Sahara. Mr. Falana who is the
Legal Adviser of the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic for Africa made the call
at the just concluded international conference on Western Sahara which took 
place in Paris, France.  He contended that the admission of Morocco to the
African Union in January 2017 while occupying Western Sahara violated
several  provisions of the Constitutive Act of the African Union. Mr. Falana  opined that
“Since South Africa under the apartheid regime was not qualified for
membership of the defunct Organisation of African Unity the African Union ought
to have allowed the Kingdom of Morocco to join the African Union while
occupying the territory of Western Sahara, a member state of the continental
body.”  But having admitted Morocco to its fold the African Union is
under a legal obligation to end the last vestige of colonialism in the
continent.  Mr. Falana stated that Morocco had proved wrong the African countries
that had hoped that the membership of Morocco in the African Union would speed
up the independence of Western Sahara. If Morocco remains intransigent she
ought to be treated like military regimes which are usually suspended from the
African Union. According to the human rights
lawyer, the occupation of Western Sahara by Morocco is a negation of the 1975
Ruling of the International Court of Justice which found that the “materials
and information presented to it do not establish any tie of territorial
sovereignty between the territory of Western Sahara and the Kingdom of Morocco
or the Mauritanian entity.” Mr. Falana opined that on the basis of the historic
ruling of the ICJ  “no country has recognised the fraudulent claim of
Morocco that Western Sahara is an integral part of her territory  while
not less than 84 countries have accorded diplomatic recognition to the Saharawi
Arab Democratic Republic.”  Mr. Falana said that “in consolidating her hegemonic grip on
western sahara Morocco has continued to frustrate the referendum scheduled to
hold in Western Sahara under the aupices of the United Nations.” Mr. Falana disclosed that the area
of Western Sahara illegally occupied by Morocco is extremely  rich in
mineral resources. He accused Morocco and her allies in and outside Africa of
exploiting such natural resources without the authority of the Saharawi Arab
Democratic Republic. However,  Mr. Falana  urged “the
trading  partners of the coloniser  to abide by the judgments of the
European Court of Human Rights which have annulled trade agreements between the
Kingdom of Morocco and members of the European Union in respect of the
exploitation of the mineral resources  Western Sahara on the grounds that
the Kingdom lacks the legal capacity to enter into such agreements without the
authority of the Saharawi people.” Mr. Falana drew the attention of
member states of the African Union to article 21 of the African Charter on
Human and People’s Rights which has vested the ownership of the mineral
resources in Western Sahara for the benefit of the Saharawi people. He recalled
that in  June 2017, a South African High  Court had cause to impound
and confiscate a  vessel  carrying a Moroccan cargo  of 50,000
tonnes of stolen phosphates from Western Sahara to New Zealand. Mr. Falana who
said that since this is a case of caveat emptor he urged African countries to
desist from colluding with Morocco to steal the mineral resources of Western
Sahara. He announced that arrangements had been concluded by the Saharawi Arab
Democratic Republic to sue the Moroccan government and its allies in municipal
courts and international tribunals for trading illegally in the mineral
resources of the people of Western Sahara. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.