The
Presidential Committee Against Corruption, PACAC, has commanded the acting
Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu for his
outstanding performance in tracing and recovering stolen assets. Chairman of
PACAC, Professor Itse Sagay gave the commendation at a Town Hall Meeting on the
fight against corruption which took place today November 7, at the NAF
Conference Centre, Kado, Abuja. Sagay, who spoke through the executive
secretary of the committee, Professor Sadiq Radda, praised the assets recovery
record of the EFCC under Magu. The
Townhall meeting organised by the Federal Ministry of Information and its
agency, the National Orientation agency, had in attendance heads of the major
anti- corruption agencies in Nigeria: Chairman EFCC, Ibrahim Magu; Chairman,
ICPC, Professor Bolaji Owasanoye; the Chairman, Code of Conduct Bureau,
Muhammed Isah; the Inspector Generalof Police, Adamu Mohammed, who was
represented and the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami,
who was represented by Abiodun Adedeji, Special Assistant to the President on
Financial Crimes. In his
presentation,  Magu, urged corrupt Nigerians with questionable assets
abroad to take advantage of Executive Order 6,  return the stolen assets
and get a ‘soft landing’. The
EFCC boss who described the fight against corruption as a divine mandate, urged
all citizens to get on board. He particularly, advocated stronger collaboration
among security agencies involved in the fight against corruption. “Fighting
corruption is not only for EFCC, ICPC, CCB; it involves all law enforcement
agencies, because they also have the responsibility to fight corruption”,
he said. Magu
explained that the EFCC is focusing more on preventive measures in tackling the
corruption menace as it has been proven to be more cost effective. He also
noted that the investigative activities of the EFCC have helped to restore
investors’ confidence in the Nigerian economy. Speaking
at the event, Minister for Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said
the effort of anti -corruption agencies in the fight against corruption has
helped in minimizing the scourge of corruption.
According to him, “This is not the first time Nigeria is fighting the
canker-worm of corruption, but it is the first time that the fight is being
lead by a President known for his honour, dignity and incorruptible personality
with strong political will, to achieve the required result.
“One may say that the war against corruption is still a work in progress. But
it is also fair to say that corruption has now been driven under the table, and
that the corrupt ones can no longer flaunt the proceeds of their corruption the
way they used to do in the past. That is a major step forward. After all, every
successful battle is a step towards winning a war,” he said.

The minister affirmed that for the nation to move forward in revamping the
economy, there is the urgent need to check corruption and tackle insecurity.
Special Assistant to  President Muhammad Buhari, on Financial Crimes,
Abiodun Adedeji, who represented the Attorney General of the federation,
Abubakar Malami, observed that introduction of Bank Verification  Number,
Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System and Treasury Single Account
has strengthened the fight against corruption in Nigeria. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.