The Deputy Whip of the Senate, Senator Aliyu Sabi
Abdullahi, has debunked insinuations that the Anti-hate Speech Bill presently
before the National Assembly was targeted at giving President Muhammadu Buhari
Administration a third term in office, describing the claim as a smear campaign
by political merchants who do not wish Nigeria well. Abdullahi also bemoaned the increasing rate of suicides
and depression among Nigerian youths, attributing the development to societal
values which breed intense hate. He, however, stated that the death penalty for anyone
found culpable of using hate speech that leads to the death of another, is an
aspect that will be subject to an amendment when the bill is eventually
considered and goes through a public hearing. “The death penalty is not definite like some Nigerians
are making it seem. In the National Assembly, bills go through legislative
processes. The concerns on the death penalty are genuine and will be amended
accordingly. During these processes, amendments are made to
fine-tune the bill in meeting with existing realities. “Therefore, the hate speech bill will go through these
processes to ensure Nigerians get the best out of the proposed bill,” Senator
Abdullahi said. “If passed, the bill will ensure justice for Nigerians
who are silent victims of hate speech. As we speak, statistics show that so
many Nigerians are depressed and suicidal. This is as a result of the way our
society is presently wired. “We live in a hate-filled society in Nigeria and need
an existing law to address this. In Kenya, they found the need to address the
associated Ills of hate speech and they are now better for it with the
introduction of laws in that direction. “In 2014, if you recall, four university of Port
Harcourt students were unjustly murdered in cold blood as a result of hate
speech. So many others have died as a result of wrong accusations. It is time
to put a stop to these gruesome killings through hate speech,” Abdullahi said. He said the bill 
 seeks to ensure justice for
Nigerians who are victims of hate speech contrary to widespread speculations. In a statement he issued in Abuja on Monday, the
lawmaker explained that the bill would ensure justice for Nigerians who were
wrongfully accused and killed. Abdullahi disclosed that the lawmakers were already
working in agreement to see that adjustments are made to the death penalty and
other punitive terms contained in the bill. The Senate’s Deputy Whip, who recalled the brutal
murder of Tekena, Lloyd, Ugonna and Chidiaka in 2014, said the University of
Port-Harcourt students were victims of hate speech. According to him, the bill if passed into law without
a death penalty would ensure justice for the victims and their families by
ensuring that the perpetrators face the weight of the law accordingly. He added that the proposed bill seeks to protect the
lives of Nigerians against undue manipulations by mischievous elements in
society. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.