The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) Command in Anambra State has arrested a 34- year old woman, Mrs Nkeoma Ezuma, for alleged human trafficking. Mr David Bille, the state NSCDC Commandant, disclosed this during a media briefing on Saturday in Awka. Billie said, Ezuma, a restaurant owner at Agulu Ezechukwu Community in Aguata Local Government Area (LGA) of the state was arrested on Nov. 5, at Agulu Ezechukwu, while perfecting plans to move her victims outside Nigeria. He disclosed that preliminary investigations revealed that the suspect specialised in trafficking teenage girls of between 17 and 25 years to Mali and other African countries where they were being forced into prostitution. He said the command also rescued three victims- Ifeoma Ezenwanne (17 years), Chidimma Charles (18 years) and Mmesoma Onwue 17 years who were billed for Mali for prostitution by the suspect. Billie said that the command got intelligence report on her illicit business, placed her on surveillance before her arrest on Nov.5. He said that the suspect who had confessed to the crime would be handed over to National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) after investigation. Billie also said that the command arrested one Emeka Eyiuche, 43 years, for job racketeering and defrauding of his victims numbering 10. According to him, Eyiuche who hail from Umudisi Abacha in Idemili North LGA of the state specialised in extorting money from unsuspecting members of the public on the pretence of securing jobs for them. “On Nov.7, 2019, at about 12:00 hours, following a tip off, men of my command arrested one Emeka Eyiuche. “The suspect after extorting N204, 000 from his victims numbering 10, promised to secure jobs for them with the NSCDC,” he said. Billie said the suspect who was in the custody of NSCDC, Awka was assisting the command in further investigation. He said his command was poised to sustain the fight against all forms of criminality as well as ensure protection of lives and property.(NAN