By Chimezie Godfrey YIAGA Africa has called on the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to as a matter of urgency
conduct an inclusive, transparent and accountable audit of the Bayelsa
gubernatorial results that involves political parties and civil society. The Chairman, YIAGA Africa Watching
the Vote-Bayelsa Observation Mission, Dr. Aisha Abdullahi who  stated this on Monday in Abuja disclosed that
the collation process for the Bayelsa governorship election was manipulated. Abdullahi explained that the PVT
data shows there were no elections in approximately 25% of polling units and
that it suggests that the collation for the Bayelsa elections was manipulated,
particularly for Southern Ijaw LGA. “This calls into question the
official results announced by INEC and credibility of this election. “While the PVT cannot determine
who has won the governorship election for Bayelsa, regardless of the outcome,
the PVT estimates suggests that the official results were manipulated during
the collation process. “YIAGA Africa urgently calls
upon INEC to conduct an inclusive, transparent, and accountable audit of the
Bayelsa gubernatorial results that involves political parties and civil
society. “The audit must include two
elements. First, it must identify all polling units that had no election on
November 16 so that new elections can be held for those polling units. “Second, it must re-collate the
results for those polling units that did hold elections on November 16 so that
the correct partial results can be determined. “YIAGA Africa stands ready to
work with INEC on this audit so that the people of Bayelsa can have confidence
in their elections and the results for the 2019 governorship results,” she
said. According to her, the Bayelsa and
Kogi elections were  an opportunity for
stakeholders to change Nigeria’s electoral trajectory, a chance  which was not utilized. She said the National Assembly
should prioritize the electoral reform in their legislative agenda to ensure
that there is improvement in subsequent elections. “The National Assembly must as
a matter of urgency prioritize electoral reform in their legislative agenda. “This is a call to President
Buhari to prove to Nigerians that he is committed to electoral reform and leave
a legacy of reforms that ends electoral impunity, strengthens democratic
institutions and deepen the culture of democratic responsibility,” she
stressed. She further called on INEC to
provide a detailed account of all polling for which no election was held and to
ensure elections are held for all polling units, adding that any decision short
of this would undermine the inclusiveness of the process and would call into
question the credibility of the election. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.