(#TrackNigeria) The West African Health Organization, WAHO, in collaboration with the African Society for Laboratory Medicine (ASLM), has organised a Mentorship and Coaching Skills Development Training Workshop for medical laboratory professionals. Funded by German Cooperation,
KFW, the week-long training workshop held from November 25 – 29, 2019, in
Lagos, Nigeria. Dr Abdourahmane Sow, WAHO professional
who coordinated the workshop while speaking at the closing ceremony on Friday,
November 29, stressed the importance of effective laboratory diagnosis. Sow charged participants to make use
of mentorship skills they have acquired to improve on Laboratory systems in
their respective countries. “I think When they get home
they will start improving their own system to ensure they can get adequate
laboratory by 2021,” Dr Sow, a professional at WAHO headquarters said. Speaking, WAHO Liaison Officer in
Nigeria, Dr Ojuolape Solanke, harped on improving laboratory surveillance with
a view to preventing epidemics and diseases. “The region has to take its own
health seriously by improving laboratory surveillance to prevent epidemics and
diseases across the border and this is why we are here. “The training workshop has been
on mentoring and improving quality management in the Laboratory systems. I am
sure you have a lot of action plans to take back to your countries to
implement. “It is for the good of your
country, it is for the good of the region and also for the good of the global
community at large,” Dr. Solanke said. Representative of the sponsors, GFA
Consulting Group, Dr. Olivier Manigart, said
the training project is focusing specifically on four key areas
– transport of samples,  data management, waste management and also
biosecurity, which according to him, “is a crucial problem for
Nigeria.” Dr. Manigart, a Senior Team Leader
at GFA Consulting Group, said the the KFW funded project which covers training
and helping to equip laboratories is to the tune of €10 millions. “The backbone of our project is
to train people on the path to ISO1589 .accreditation.:We are planning to train
some more in French and Portuguese and English” “We are trying to equip in
Nigeria five regional reference laboratories in different  places of the
country”, Dr. Manigart added. Lagos state commissioner for health,
Prof Akin Abayomi, posited that “You can’t practise medicine without good
diagnosis whether laboratory or radiological diagnosis.” He later presented certificates to
all the participants drawn from ECOWAS Member States. The training workshop
started on Monday, November 25. The objectives of the training
workshop were: To train mentorship and coaching
technics and methods to medical laboratory  professionals; To provide participants with
knowledge and skills on the requirements of the ISO standards (ISO 15189:2012
and ISO 9001:2015); To develop competency on mentorship
and coaching skills; To build national and regional
capacity to improve the quality systems of medical laboratories. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.