By
Ibrahim Mohammed Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in collaboration with
Nigeria Agip Oil Company Limited have donated water projects to four rural
communities in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja with a view to
improving food and nutrition security. The
benefiting communities are Wassa 2, Sherreti, Karimajiji and Malaysia Garden
all located in the Abuja Municipal Area Council of the territory. Speaking
at the commissioning and handing-over ceremony at Sherreti community, on
Thursday, FCT Minister of State, Dr, Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, noted that the FAO
has contributed to international efforts to defeat hunger and improve local
economies by helping its member countries improve agriculture, forestry, and
fisheries practices. The
minister who was represented by her Senior Special Assistant in charge of
Administration, Prof. Muhammad Usman, pointed out that the completion of the
water projects in these communities will no doubt help to improve food
security, hygiene and sanitation, for an estimated 4,000 persons, both among
the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and the host communities. According
to her “among other things, the beneficiaries are expected to use the
water to irrigate small vegetable gardens to enhance their nutrition, their
incomes, and their livelihoods generally. “The
boreholes are also solar-powered and equipped with plugs that residents can use
to charge their cell phones. More importantly, they are well lit at night and
therefore safe to access at all times while also being aggregation points
within the communities.” The
minister therefore appealed to members of the benefiting communities to guard
the facilities against vandals. She
then used the occasion to express the FCT Administration’s appreciation to
development partners for contributing to the improvement and development of
water schemes in the Federal Capital Territory, stressing that these are no
small contributions to government’s efforts at addressing developmental
challenges, especially President Muhammadu Buhari’s focused push to lift 100
million Nigerians out of poverty in a decade. “We
are on the verge of finalising a Strategic Implementation Plan for achieving
the Federal Government of Nigeria’s 2019 – 2023 Deliverables for the FCT and
shall be calling on you soon to join hands with us to raise the tempo of
development, especially in the social services sector, as we commence plan
implementation,” she stated. In
his remarks, the Food and Agriculture Organization, representative in Nigeria
Mr. Suffyan Koroma, noted that the use of water for domestic and agriculture
needs is one sure way to reach the zero-hunger goal, as food and nutrition
security is enhanced. Koroma,
expressed the hope that the four projects will mitigate the water challenges of
the Internally Displaced Persons (IDs), and the host communities, noting that
the organisation has continued to provide support to development initiatives
and strategies aimed at reducing poverty, improving food and nutrition as well
as the efficient management of the country’s natural resources. For
his part, the Managing Director of Nigerian Agip Exploration Limited, Mr.
Lorenzo Fiorillo, said the company has a long history of cooperation and
friendship with the Nigerian people, adding that these initiatives are in
agreement with the company’s social investment and corporate social
responsibility agenda targeted at providing support for Nigeria and her
citizens. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.