I have followed the affairs of
the National Broadcasting Commission over the past two decades, because of the
role it plays in regulating broadcasting in our country. I believe NBC came at
the right time, when President Babangida deregulated the industry during the
1990s. I am one of the beneficiaries of the system. I served in the Cross River
State Radio in Calabar, in the early nineties, and I have worked on and off, in
several broadcasting stations since then. I am one of those who believe that
NBC is a force for good in our climate. It is there to ensure that broadcasters
behave ethically, and in order to ensure a tranquil environment in our country,
with its several fault lines that opportunists can exploit to cause
disaffection. That was why many of us applauded NBC early last year, when it
closed down Ekiti state radio and television, after the elections. Former Governor,
Ayo Fayose wanted to cause mayhem, by trying to announce his own results. It would
have been a repeat of the sad experience of the old Ondo state, in the 1983
elections, which resulted in the loss of several lives and the destruction of
property. NBC’s quick intervention saved many lives in Ekiti state. Because I follow keenly
developments in and around the NBC, I have been worried about the manner that
the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed, is gradually
turning himself into the Minister of NBC Affairs, since his recent
re-appointment. Hardly has a day passed, that he won’t mention something
related to the work of the regulatory commission. It is almost as if the NBC
does not have a Board in place, or the organization no longer have a Director
General. What is the basis of Alhaji Lai Muhammed’s compulsive obsession with
that organization? I have read the story of the Committee that he has set up to
implement reforms in the NBC. And while no one can fault the fact that every public
institution needs reformation to meet growing exigencies; what might cause
problem is when plans for reform, become an avenue to pursue a personal agenda.
For instance, all broadcasting industry insiders know that Alhaji Lai Muhammed
does not have a good relationship with the NBC Director General, Mr. Ishaq
Modibbo Kawu. So when the Minister of Information appointed a Director working
under the NBC DG to head a reform implementation committee, a lot of eye brows
were raised by watchers. Why did Alhaji Lai Muhammed make
such an appointment? Did he do so in consultation with the DG or inspite of the
DG? What role did the Minister assign to the Board of the NBC, which by law is
supposed to be directing any reform in the institution? Did he carry them along
or was he actually behaving like a Sole Administrator of the NBC, which is not
in the Act setting up the Commission? How does the Minister justify the fact
that his implementation committee is filled with licensees of the Commission?
What type of reform can licensees impose on their regulatory agency, that can
be fair? Didn’t the Minister give this a good thought, before putting together
his implementation team? And did he not expect that a backlash was going to
come from the Board of the Commission, given the clear place that they occupy
within the ambits of the law, the Act, which sets up the Commission? In his
heart can he convince himself that he did not disrespect the Board, and
especially the Chairman, a two-time Minister, and a leading politician in his
own right too? What exactly is the crime that the NBC Director General has
committed against the Minister, that he seems so bent on not only undermining
his authority but also seeming to want to prematurely end his tenure at the
NBC? For those of us looking from outside, the feeling was that as people from
the same state, who were in the same political camp, to end the Saraki reign in
Kwara, their relationship would be made beneficial for their state and Nigeria.
It doesn’t seem to be so. My question for Alhaji Lai Muhammed is that, if you
get the Director General out of the NBC, would you ever be allowed to appoint
another Kwaran in his place? Or you cannot be bothered with such niceties,
because all you want is to terminate your Kwara man’s tenure? And is the Minister even thinking
of the negatives that some of his pronouncements are logging for the Buhari
administration? When he openly says that he would regulate social media, who is
he speaking for really? Is it a coincidence that the Vice President responded
to him, that it was not a proper thing to think of regulating or controlling
social media? Is Alhaji Lai Muhammed not helping to reinforce the discourse
about President Buhari, being anti-press freedom? Is that the type of negative
image that the country’s Minister of Information should be reinforcing, in his
over enthusiastic statements, that all come within the whole scenario about his
seeming takeover of the NBC? And what is the story that he peddles about
issuing a new “National Broadcasting Code”? The last time I checked, there is a
Nigeria Broadcasting Code, which the NBC and the industry work on and is used
as the instrument to regulate the broadcasting industry. Who will Alhaji Lai
Muhammed use his own “National Broadcasting Code” to regulate? How will he
produce such an instrument? Didn’t the NBC release a 6th edition of the Nigeria
Broadcasting Code a few months ago? And from what we know, the Code is produced
once every four to five years. So how is Alhaji Lai Muhammed going to bring out
his own “National Broadcasting Code”, to take the place of the legitimate
Nigeria Broadcasting Code? A lot seems to be happening. And
most of these are coming from the pursuit of a personal, and a not too hidden,
agenda, by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed. It is
so clear, that the more he states that he got presidential approval for his
actions, the more hollow it sounds. Presidential approval cannot be a fig leaf
to hide a putrid, personal agenda, which might end up destroying the
institution, than reforming it. Alhaji Lai Muhammed is believed to rely on a
tiny coterie of individuals, who have personal scores to settle, and have all
bunched together to cause as much upheavals as possible in the affairs of the National
Broadcasting Commission. One of the jokes that someone made at the just
concluded BON Congress in Lagos, was to ask when Alhaji Lai Muhammed would move
his table and chair into the premises of the National Broadcasting Commission,
to complete his takeover of the institution. What is shameful in all that is
happening, is that those who can call Minister Lai Muhammed to order, have
maintained an unusual silence, as he continues his relentless pursuit of a
personal agenda, at the NBC, through a most controversial NBC reform
implementation committee. Surely, President Muhammadu Buhari did not appoint
Alhaji Lai Muhammed as a Minister of NBC Affairs. He should live to the oath
that he swore to, never to use the position to pursue a personal agenda, because
there is so much palpable personal vendetta seeping through all his actions at
the National Broadcasting Commission. Nigeria will be the loser, if Alhaji Lai
Muhammed is allowed to see through his personal vendetta at the NBC. Adelanwa Olajubu, a broadcaster, is from Idanre, Ondo State. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing. The minister is definitely confused. I doubt if he knows his limitations as information Minister. I doubt if the NBC like the Police Service Commission will allow him rubbish them.