(Army press release) In what could
be adjudged as another futile revenge mission, some uncoordinated and cowardly
remnants of the Boko Haram/ISWAP criminal elements staged yet another
unsuccessful attack on the location of the troops of 64 and 98 Task Force
Battalions and elements of the Armed Forces Special Forces Battalion at Malam
Fatori in Abadam LGA of Borno State. Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, Nigerian Army
Operations Media Coordinator who disclosed this in a statement also  recalled that on 13th November 2019, some
marauding Boko Haram criminal elements attempted to infiltrate the troops’
location by launching an unsuccessful attack with Person Borne Improvised
Explosive Devices (PBIEDs), Gun Trucks, Rocket Propelled Guns and other small
arms but were decisively annihilated, having been made to suffer very high
casualties in both men and equipment. Within less than 24 hours of their
devastating defeat however, the outgunned criminal insurgents launched another
desperate attack on the highly spirited troops of Mallam Fatori in the wee
hours of today, 15 November 2019. In their swift and highly
coordinated response, the gallant and relentless troops at the location once
again brought their resilience, bold action and superior fire power/lethality
to bear on the criminal insurgents as they handed them another crushing defeat.
At the end of this particular encounter, one Boko Haram Gun Truck was
completely burnt along with 3 of the criminal insurgents that were trapped in
it. Apparently, the vehicle was gutted
by fire as a result of the high volume of fire delivered by the troops. 
Furthermore, 2 of the Boko Haram criminal elements were equally neutralised
during the ensuing gun battle between the troops and the criminal 
insurgents. Some of the equipment captured from the criminal insurgents during
this futile mission include one Anti-Aircraft Gun, one Anti-Aircraft Gun
barrel, 8 AK 47 Riffles, one Rocket Propelled Gun tube, 3 AK 47 magazines, one
bandolier, 2 rounds of Anti-Aircraft Gun ammunition and one Rocket Propelled
Grenade bomb. Subsequently, the Air Task Force, Operation Lafiya Dole went on
the trail of the routed remnants of the insurgents to ensure their total
obliteration.  Regrettably, 2 gallant soldiers sustained gunshot wounds
during this encounter. Both of them have already been stabilized and are
already responding positively to treatment at a military hospital. The Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya
Dole Maj Gen Olusegun Adeniyi on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen
Tukur Yusufu Buratai once again conveyed his message of encouragement to the
troops for a job well done. He further enjoined them to continue to mount
pressure on the insurgents until they are forced to total submission. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.