The National Assembly has indicated
interest in amending the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999
(as amended) to provide for a smooth transition of legislative powers from an
outgoing to an incoming National Assembly. The National Assembly also seeks to
reinforce, through constitutional amendment, the powers of the President to
dissolve the outgoing National Assembly and convene the first session as
contained in the National Assembly bill, 2019. The decision to amend the
Constitution in this direction was reached after consideration of the National
Assembly Inauguration bill, 2019, which was eventually stood down on Wednesday
in the Senate to enable issues raised in the bill to be addressed through a
process of constitutional amendment. Sponsor of the bill, Senator Gabriel
Suswam (PDP, Benue North East), in his lead debate, said the bill among other
things, seeks to ensure a smooth transition of legislative powers from the
out-going National Assembly to the in-coming one. This, according to Suswam, would be
achieved by providing a comprehensive legal framework for managing and
coordinating the inauguration and swearing-in of newly elected or in-coming
Senators or Members elect after the dissolution of the outgoing National
Assembly by the President in exercise of his powers under section 64(3) of the
1999 Constitution as amended. The lawmaker added that though
Section 311 of Chapter VIII, Part I of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, makes
transitional provisions with respect to Standing Orders of the Senate, no such
transitional and saving provisions are contained in any extant law with respect
to the Standing Orders of any out-going and in-coming National Assembly. “It suffices to say that by item 68
of the Exclusive List, Part 1 of the Second Schedule to the 1999 Constitution,
as amended, the power of the National Assembly to legislate on the inauguration
day/date of elected members of the National Assembly is incidental to the
Exclusive power of the National Assembly to legislate on the election of
members of the National Assembly,” Suswam stressed. Underscoring the need to designate a
particular day for inaugurating the in-coming National Assembly, Suswam said
doing so “would avert a vacuum and constitutional crisis that may arise as a
result of the time lag between the inauguration of the President and the
swearing-in of newly elected members of the National Assembly.” Senators who spoke in support of the
bill are: Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe; Deputy Minority Leader,
Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, and Senator James Manager (PDP, Delta South). Coming under a point of order,
Senator Adamu Aliero (APC, Kebbi South) while citing orders 63 and 64 of the
constitution, warned of an impending conflict likely to arise with the passage
of the Bill into law. The Deputy Senate President, Ovie
Omo-Agege, while lending his voice to the debate, said going ahead to consider
and pass the National Assembly bill would result in a conflict with the
provisions of the 1999 Constitution as amended. Omo-Agege, therefore, suggested that
an amendment of the 1999 constitution in this direction be duly considered by
the National Assembly to address all issues identified in the National Assembly
bill, 2019. “This is a constitutional issue. The
only way we can bring this to pass is to amend the Constitution not by passing
a Bill that will be in conflict with the provisions of the Constitution. “We have the constitutional review
coming up. Those who believe we should do this can do the amendment by
reviewing Section 64 that deals with when the proclamation can take place,” he
said. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan,
in his remarks on the bill, said “It is clear that even if we sign it into law,
the new act cannot vitiate Section 64 of the 1999 Constitution. I will advise
that we tow the path of constitutional amendment.” “There is no doubt that this bill is
a good bill and well intentioned, but we cannot address the problems through
this bill. It has to go through a constitutional amendment. “This bill, however, succeeded in
igniting the argument that we have to do something about this. So I will advise
that we stand down the debate on this bill and then bring a constitutional
amendment to address the issue,” Lawan added.