A Human Capital Development plan
that’s intended to move 24 million Nigerians out of poverty before 2030
commenced on Monday in Kaduna and culminated in Ado Ekiti in the South western
part of the country yesterday. The plan is jointly embarked upon by
the Nigeria Governors’ Forum and the office of Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbanjo. Human Capital is the stock of habits,
knowledge, social and personal attributes embodied in the ability to perform
labor to produce economic value. It is unique and differs from any other
capital. It is needed for people to achieve goals, develop and remain
innovative. Led by Yosola Akinbi of the office of
the Vice President of Nigeria, the Core Working Group, CWG, commenced its
sensitization tour of the country in Kaduna where it met with Governor Nasiru
el Rufai and Sagir Ahmed the States HCD Focal Person. The overall vision of the HCD is
concentrated in three thematic areas which are Education, Public health and
nutrition and the workforce. Yosola Akinbi told the governor of
Kaduna State that when compared to the rest of the world, Nigeria is rated very
low and that instead of playing the ostrich and living in denial, it is better
for the country to rise to the occasion and confront the problem head-on. In his interaction with the CWG,
Governor el Rufai reeled out a number of gains in his HCD strides which include
the establishment of an ICT innovation Hub, Click Kaduna, where young
unemployed people and even sit-at-home mums are finding gainful employment and
making money, some in hard currency. In outlining the overall vision of
the state in the HCD project, Governor El Rufai disclosed that he has established
five Policy Councils that meet between 8am and 10am every working day and
forward their resolutions which serve as the development compass of the state. These Policy Councils cover the
critical areas of governance like Procurement Council, Infrastructure Council,
Economic Development Council and Institutional Development Council and HCD.
They are all headed by very senior members of his cabinet. The effect of these Councils is that
they have brought pragmatism and expertise into governance and made my job
easier because now I can sit back and only assent to their resolutions or
reject same, El Rufai stressed. This, he also added, has relegated
the state executive council in the scheme of things in the state as a result of
which the executive council doesn’t even meet as regularly as it used to,
anymore. Moreover, El Rufai added that, the
Deputy Governor who according to the HCD-CWG formula is each state’s champion
of the project is a public health specialist who had done great work in the
state which earned her the confidence of the governor and elevated her to the
Deputy Governor position. However, despite the strides of the
HCD project in Kaduna State, both government officials and the traditional
rulers of Kaduna regret that drug addiction is impeding the progress of youths
in the state and is also the cause of crimes in the state. But in Ekiti State which the CWG
visited on Wednesday the Chairman of the Ekiti State Traditional Council, the
Alawe of Ilawe, told the CWG that while Ekiti State is the fountain of
knowledge it is still groaning under the weight of adult-illiteracy because
most elderly people are left behind in erudition. In a meeting with the CWG and some
politicians who had been joined by providence at the Alawe’s palace, may
pledged their commitment to the ideals of the HCD but argued that there was
need to find a constitutional role for the traditional institutions in the
country if the vision of the HCD were to be realized. This same sentiment had been voiced
out by a traditional ruler from Zazzau who was there to represent the Emir of
Zaria. On his part, the Chairman of the
Nigeria Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ekiti State who met with the CWG in
his office declared a total commitment to the HCD while telling them that they
were preaching to the pope, where HCD is concerned. He said child mortality used to be
very high in Ekiti State but that has since been addressed. He reminded the CWG
that several HCD plans initiated by his previous administration were
regrettably jettisoned by his predecessor but added that happily they are now
gradually being returned to the governance tray. At a meeting of stakeholders between
the CWG and youth groups Ekiti State, the youths stated that although they were
allowed to make input into the budget, they were still partially integrated and
would like a bigger role for youths in the state. The CWG would be making their next
stop in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.