Justice Mojisola Dada of the Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos
has adjourned further hearing in a $5m fraud case involving the duo of Victor
Uadiale and Capt. Everest Nnaji to December 16, 2019. The suspects were
arraigned on Friday, December 14, 2018  on an amended  three-count
charge bordering on obtaining by false pretence to the tune of over 
$5million (Five Million United States Dollars). One of the counts reads:
“That you, Victor Uadiale (aka Victor Emeka/Amaka Emeka), Captain Everest
Nnaji and Ismail Lawal (now at large), sometime in 1998 in Lagos within the
jurisdiction of this Honourable court, with intent to defraud, conspired to
commit an offence to wit: obtaining money by false pretence from one Tawfeeq A.
Al-Omar, a Kuwaiti National, and committed an offence contrary to Section 8(a)
and 1(3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act, No. 13
of 1995 as amended by Act No. 62 of 1999.” Another count reads:
“That you, Victor Uadiale (aka Victor Emeka/Amaka Emeka), Captain Everest
Nnaji and Ismail Lawal (now at large) between 22nd April and 12th day of
October 1998, in Lagos within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with
intent to defraud, obtained the aggregate sum of $1, 292, 000. 00 (One Million,
Two Hundred and Ninety Two Thousand United States Dollar) from  Tawfeeq A.
Al-Omar , a Kuwaiti national, by falsely representing to him that the said sum
represented payment for Urea phosphate fertilizer, which you claimed was
procured from National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAFCON) Port Harcourt and
Bonny Light Crude oil, which pretext you knew to be false and committed an
offence contrary to  Section 1(3) of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud
Related Offences Act, No. 13 of 1995 as amended by Act No. 62 0f 1999”. The defendants pleaded
not guilty to the charges preferred against them by the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission, EFCC. At the resumed hearing
today,  Tuesday,  November 26, 2019, the prosecution counsel, Rotimi
Oyedepo,  informed the court that the first  prosecution
witness,  PW1, Tawfeeq A. Al-Omar, had to travel to Germany on health
grounds. He, therefore, sought the
permission of the court for the first prosecution witness, PW1,  Al-Omar,
to be further crossed-examined by the defence team through a video call on
Skype. The PW1, Al-Omar, who
was  further  cross-examined through Skype from Germany, told the
court that he had nothing more to say and that he had no answer to any question
regarding the case. Al-Omar further told
stated that he had told the court everything he knew about the case. “ I have brought to the
court all essential documents needed. “ I have been bedridden
in Germany since I left Nigeria, “ he added. Counsel to the
defendants, Abimbola Akeredolu, SAN and Ola Olanipekun, SAN, respectively told
the court that PW1 was not produced for further cross-examination due to his
“unwillingness to answer further questions in the course of further
cross-examination.” Consequently, Justice
Dada held that the PW1 had told the court all that he knew about the matter
and, therefore, discharged him. Oyedepo also informed the
court that he had three more witnesses to call before the prosecution would
close its case. Counsel to the second
defendant, Akeredolu, informed the court that an application had been filed
seeking the court order for the temporal release of her client’s international
passport to allow him travel for a business meeting in Dubai. However, Oyedepo told the
court that he was served with the application a few minutes before the defence
counsel informed the court about it,  that he would be opposing the application. “ My Lord, I need time to
peruse the application and will respond within the stipulated time, “ he
further told the court. Justice Dada, therefore,
adjourned the case until December 16, 2019 for hearing of the application
and December 27, 2019 for continuation of  trial. Al-Omar had narrated to
the court how he had been lured to come to Nigeria by one Mohammed Lawal
Abdullahi, who claimed he was visiting his relative, a diplomat in the Kuwaiti
Embassy. Al-Omar had further
stated that he had several meetings with Lawal ,who also told him that he was a
business partner with Uadiale and Nnaji and that they could supply Urea
Fertilizer to him. In view of this, Al-Omar
had allegedly come to Nigeria and met with the defendants who further told him
that they had a deal with NAFCON to lift Urea fertilizer. Al-Omar, subsequently
made payments to the defendants on several occasions. Al-Omar had further told
the court that, while the transactions were going on, the suspects told him
that they could also supply Bonny Light Crude Oil, which he paid for.