There is anxiety of the dwindling
foreign direct investment in Nigeria going by the recent statistics by the
Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS). While a foreign direct investment
(FDI) is an investment in the form of a controlling ownership in a business in
one country by an entity based in another country but it is distinguished from
a foreign portfolio investment by a notion of direct control. For a clarity, a
foreign investment is when a company invest in another country while Foreign
Direct Investment (FDI) is when a country owns 10 percent or more of a foreign
company, making it a wholly or partly foreign-owned. Over the years, FDI has become the
most important source of external resource inflows to developing countries.
This investment pattern has also become a significant part of capital formation
in these countries. Nigeria is one of the economies with great demand for goods
and services and has attracted some FDI over the years. FDI is assumed to benefit a
developing country like Nigeria, not only by supplementing domestic investment
but also in transfer of technology, increase in employment, development of
human capital, access to management expertise, economic stimulation, skills,
technology and other positive externalities. The recent data released by NBS
reveals how the investment inflows into the country have dropped significantly
from $5.82bn to $5.36bn in the second quarter of this year. This negative
drawback represents about 7.78% in declination. It is sad to note that Nigeria now
attracts less foreign investment than Ghana, a country with less population
than Nigeria. By implication, Nigeria’s economy can comfortably be said to be
heading south as it is clearly underperforming, despite a lot of resources
spent by the government on foreign trips and tours to attract foreign capital
investment inflow. However, in spite of the economic
advantages, Nigeria is seemed to attract little or no FDI inflows into the
country. Nigeria is blessed with enormous human and natural resources to make
FDI comfortable, but foreign investors are not coming in. Some of the reasons
attributable to the negative economic trend include corruption, insecurity,
multiple taxation, disobedient to the rule of law, and high-risk market for
investment. Concerns have also been raised by
the head of investment research at Sigma Pensions Ltd, Mr Wale Okunrinboye, who
said “weak FDI inflows suggest the economy’s low growth cycle will continue
because there is no other assured path to robust growth without attracting
investment.” Nigeria government can be advised to
adapt to Rwanda foreign investment strategy used in 2017. The Rwanda FDI
skyrocketed from 800 million dollars in 2007 to 1.675 billion dollars in 2017
when the government provided conducive environment for foreign investors. According to Rwanda Development
Board, three sectors that attracted the most investments were construction and
real estate (638 million dollars), followed by mining (267.3 million dollars)
and lastly infrastructure (203 million dollars). All this comes to the case of
industrial management in the nation. I strongly believe industrial
management is the surest answer to our economic woes. Nigeria must look into
other ICT industry and diversification into agriculture and mining rather than
relying on crude oil for revenue. These sectors have high potentials to attract
significant foreign private investment inflow in the FDI. Governments can play an important
role in promoting and developing its natural resources to encourage more
investments in the country. Nigeria needs to juxtapose foreign investment with
domestic investment in order to maintain high levels of income and employment
generation. For Nigeria to generate more foreign
direct investment, efforts should be made at solving problems of government
involvement in business, relatively closed economy, fight corruption, reform
weak public institutions and boost global reputation. Saad Yushau Shuaib Wuye District Abuja Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.