Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC)
on Monday urged companies operating in the country to file in their annual
returns as provided by the law or risk being de-listed from its register. Mr Moses Adaguusu, Head Public
Affairs, CAC, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the call became
necessary in view of the need to keep the commission abreast of such companies
that were still in operation or otherwise. An annual return is a mandatory
requirement every enterprise or incorporated trustees must file annually by
delivering to CAC a return in the prescribed form containing specified matters
related to the organisation in accordance with Companies and Allied Matters Act
(CAMA). “A very vital importance is that
filing of the annual return by a company helps to simply keep the commission
abreast that such company is still actively in operation and still engaging in
business activities or otherwise,’’ Adaguusi said. While emphasising that the
Enforcement and Monitoring Department of the Commission would intensify efforts
to ensure compliance, Adaguusi, however, urged companies to embrace voluntary
compliance. According to him, although, we go
out on enforcement, we are not going like task force because the economy is
difficult. “We want companies to embrace
voluntary compliance so that there won’t be penalties. “Penalties run into millions of
naira and that is enough to close a company,’’ he said. Adaguusu expressed concern that
rather than comply with filing annual returns to the CAC, some companies seek
for waiver on penalties. According to him, in extreme cases,
the commission considers waivers on penalty. He also pointed out that companies
need to be up to date with CAC to enable them get registered with the Bureau of
Public Procurement (BPP). Adaguusu said, “companies that
execute contracts would have difficulties being paid if they are not registered
with the BPP. “Companies that want to do business
must be on the Bureau of Public Procurement and before you are registered with
BPP you must be up to date with CAC. “This is another window that is
encouraging companies to come and update with CAC,’’ Adaguusu said. He, however, pointed out that the
process of delisting companies from CAC’s register for failure to file annual
returns is an ongoing process. “It takes a process and it is
ongoing. “In 2008, 10 companies were
deregistered and in 2016, 38 companies were also deregistered; so, it is a
continuous process and there will be no need to leave companies that are not
complying on the register,’’ Adaguusi said. He emphasised that the task before
the Monitoring and Enforcement Department was to ensure that companies do not
only file their annual returns but stay away from sharp practices. ” For instance we will go from door
to door to ensure that companies maintain the original names they used for
registration. “Also, the department will ensure
that companies display their registration numbers in all their correspondence
as well as indicate the list of directors. “A company with a reputation will
give people who want to do business with them a breath. “On the contrary, where the
directors are not know, people will be skeptical to do business with them,’’
Adaguusi said. He further said that CAC would
sustain efforts aimed at ensuring that the process of registering companies was
devoid of hitches. Adaguusu said that the upgrade of
the Company Registration Portal (CRP) is to enhance the incorporation process. The Company Registration Portal is
the software that drives the operations of the commission. The commission’s spokesman added
that the move to upgrade the software was geared toward ensuring improved
efficiency, provision of greater customer experience and ease of doing
business.(NAN) Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.