Oyo State Chapter of the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the opposition All Progressives
Congress(APC) in the state as a bunch of desperate politicians who are afraid
of their shadows. The PDP, which spoke through
the State Publicity Secretary of the Party. Engineer Akeem Olatunji, said that
the election petition filed against the resounding victory of Governor Seyi
Makinde at the March 9, 2019 governorship election was doomed to fail, being a
bad case ab initio. He further stated that the APC
petition has been found to be a wasted effort by the Election Tribunal and the
Appeal Tribunal, adding that the petition will fail all through. “They know that they have no
case, but being characters who are not ashamed of telling lies in the open,
they are attempting to deceive the fickle-minded and the unsuspecting persons. But they have a bad case
from the outset. They indeed have no case, we all know. Even their candidate
knows he is in a wide goose chase,” the PDP spokesman said. The party added: “In line with
the world of fantasy the APC in Oyo has created for itself, it has been going
about peddling all sorts of rumour, half-truths and outright lies in the media.
They have been conjuring claims that the PDP and Governor Seyi Makinde were
priming persons to embark on street protests and media campaigns. “Let us put it on record that
the truth cannot be coloured no matter how hard you try and so Governor Seyi
Makinde needs not engineer street protests to justify his acceptance by the
people of Oyo State. He, has, rather than encourage street protests, been
calming down the people all these days so as to ensure peace continues to reign
in the state. “Let it be known that the anger
of the people of Oyo is against the APC and its leaders in the state. They are
trying to insult our people who massively for the Governor in the governorship
election in March. The people are really angry with their media posturing. They
have Governor Seyi Makinde to thank for guaranteeing that they can freely
workaround in the state; being a man who plays politics without bitterness. Let
them not stretch their luck too far because our people are watching.” The statement further read:
“Let no APC propagandist go about telling lies and conjuring things in their
head about Governor Seyi Makinde sponsoring protests. We need to let them know
that the Governor cannot stop the people from freely expressing their love for
him anytime they so wish. But it needed to be said that the Governor has spent
the past weeks calming the people down and urging them to face their jobs
because his mandate is intact. The Court of Appeal which ruled on the Adebayo
Adelabu and APC’s petition actually nailed the petition as incompetent and
useless.  There is nothing that will tamper with the mandate freely
and widely given to Governor Seyi Makinde because the people are firmly behind
him.”