The Senate on Thursday
resolved to send a delegation to commiserate with the victims and people of
Anambra State over the recent tanker fire incident which claimed scores of
lives. The upper chamber while
reacting to the incident through a motion considered on the floor, urged the
Federal Government through the Nigeria Fire Service to provide firefighting
equipment in all major markets across the country. One of the sponsors of the
motion, Senator Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra North) lamented the incident which
claimed many lives, especially that of a woman and her child after 16 years of
childlessness. The lawmaker noted that
between 2015 and 2018, fuel tanker infernos and accidents caused by vehicles
have led to many deaths on Nigeria’s highway. Oduah recalled that in July
this year, a motion on similar incident sponsored by Senator Orker-Jev Emmanuel
Yisa (PDP, Benue North West) claimed many lives and destroyed property worth
millions of naira. She called for strict
enforcement of traffic safety rules by the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC),
the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) and all relevant security agencies in order to
ensure safer roads across the country. Accordingly, the Senate
urged the NPF to work in conjunction with the FRSC to carry out a thorough
investigation of the circumstances leading to the fuel tanker fire, with a view
to prosecuting anyone found culpable. Meanwhile, the upper chamber
on Thursday directed its Committees on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance to
investigate the activities of Messrs OMSL limited and other security agencies
at the Safe Anchorage Area in the Lagos Ports to determine the legality of their
operations and revenue implications. The resolution was reached
sequel to the consideration of a motion titled: “Illegal security activity by
Messrs OMSL Limited at the Safe Anchorage Area of Lagos Ports and the need to
investigate their excesses”. Sponsor of the motion,
Senator George Thompson Sekibo (PDP, Rivers East), said that “a security
company registered in the name of OMSL limited has since 2014 carried out
provision of security of the Lagos Ports Safe Anchorage Area on fees from
vessels without regard to the Nigerian Ports Authority. The lawmaker disclosed that
“OMSL Limited charged every ship that anchored within the Safe Area $2,500 on
the first day of anchorage and $1,500 on every subsequent day for the period
any ship stayed at the anchorage area.” According to Sekibo, “it
takes between 28 to 30 days for ships that anchor at the Safe Anchorage Area to
exit, meaning that every ship pays as much as $46,500 for making use of the
Anchorage Area within that period.” He added that, “OMSL in
connivance with other security agencies are collecting a whooping sum of
$133.28 million or N47.98 billion every year from 2014, meaning that over
$733.04 or N263.89 billion have been collected by OMSL and its collaborators.” The lawmaker noted that by
virtue of the Ports Act (1954), the Anchorage Area is an integral part of NPA
statutory responsibility while NIMASA, Marine Police and Nigerian Navy have the
sole responsibility to ensure safe and secure Nigeria territorial waters. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.