With increasing speculation on the
tenure of office of the Acting Executive Chairman of the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, the commission has recently been sending out
mixed signals on its treatment of several persons accused of financial crimes
under the Goodluck Jonathan Administration.  While there have always been
concerns about the selective prosecution of accused persons by the EFCC, some
recent actions by the EFCC have buttressed this perception, fueling the belief
that the Commission may be acting a script aimed at persecuting some persons
who are believed not to be in the good books of the Government, while letting
others off the hook. A case in point is the recent
Interpol arrest warrant executed against the former Attorney General of the
Federation, Mohammed Adoke, SAN, in Dubai, which is believed to have been based
on a request from the EFCC, even though the Judge who issued the initial
warrant, Justice D. Senchi had quashed the warrant since on 25th October, 2019.
Surprisingly, while the EFCC has gone ahead to seek Mr. Adoke’s extradition
based on the quashed warrant, it has continued to develop cold feet with
respect to Diezani’s extradition to Nigeria to face trial. Prior to the arrest of Mr. Adoke in
Dubai on 11th November, 2019, the EFCC had in a surprising twist withdrawn all
charges against three accused persons Nnamdi Okonkwo, Managing Director,
Fidelity Bank, Lanre Adesanya, former Executive Director, Sterling Bank and
Stanley Lawson, former Group Executive Director, NNPC, regarding the alleged
transfer of US$153 million. While the charges allege, that the transfer was
done on behalf of Mrs. Diezani Allison Madueke, they do not show any nexus
between the accused persons and in particular, Mr. Dauda Lawal and
Diezani.  Although, this is the only case in which Diezani has been
directly mentioned, the EFCC is yet to formally arraign any of the accused
persons, since it first filed the charges in November, 2018. Yet at the last
sitting of the Court on 5th November, 2019, the Commission surprisingly
withdrew charges against the principal accused persons and only charged the
former Executive Director, First Bank, Mr. Dauda Lawal with sundry charges of
money laundering in an amended charge sighted by our correspondent. Mr. Lawal’s case in particular, is
quite intriguing, as he is not accused of been a beneficiary of any the funds
allegedly transferred on behalf of Diezani, rather he is accused of having
facilitated the transfer of the funds in the course of normal banking
operations.  Mr. Lawal was the Executive Director, Public Sector at First
Bank, in which role he was responsible for dealing with government agencies and
officials and it is believed that his close relations with top officials in the
Goodluck Jonathan administration is the reason for his current travails with
the EFCC. Mr. Lawal was first arrested by EFCC in May, 2016, where he spent
weeks with the EFCC and was subsequently released without any charges. After
resigning from First Bank, he joined politics and declared his intention to run
for Governor in Zamfara State, it was only after his declaration to run for
office that the EFCC revived the case of 2016 and again arrested him in 2018,
where he was detained for another two weeks without any Court order. Since
commencing its investigation into the alleged transfer of US$153 million, the
Commission is yet to arraign the accused persons and take a plea from them. This latest action of the EFCC in
withdrawing charges against Nnamdi Okonkwo, Lanre Adesanya and Stanley Lawson,
but retaining only Mr. Dauda Lawal, has again brought to the fore the
inconsistent approach of the EFCC to some of its cases. In some instances, such
as that of Mr. Adoke and Mr. Lawal, the EFCC is seen to be bullish in its
approach, while it treats other cases with kid gloves, which opens the
Commission to charges of bias, political persecution and trial by media. In
particular some legal experts have posited that the EFCC has no actual
intention of trying Mr. Lawal, before the Courts, but is rather using the
charges to harass him and deter him from pursuing his claims against EFCC to
recover some funds that were wrongly seized from him.  One issue that is
confusing is the withdrawal of charges against accused persons who are
physically available for trial in Nigeria and substituting them with persons
such as Ben Otti and Diezani Allison Madueke who are both stated on the charges
to be at large and are therefore not available for trial. It is even more curious that Nnamdi
Okonkwo, Lanre Adesanya and Stanley Lawson and Dauda Lawal were charged with
the same offences, yet the others were discharged from the case, while fresh
charges were filed against Dauda Lawal. The EFCC is a body funded by taxpayers
and the burden of transparency and responsibility is on the Commission to prove
that they have not truly become an agent of witch-hunt and for settling personal
scores. It is therefore widely believed that
this recent act of the EFCC in Diezani’s case and others will only fuel the
belief that the EFCC may be subject to political and extraneous influence in
its choice of persons to prosecute for alleged financial crimes, while letting
others with even worse allegations off the hook. Political watchers are of the
view that Mr. Magu is acting out a script towards achieving a particular end
and that time will reveal all. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.