By Chimezie Godfrey #TrackNigeria- The Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) has stated that it will on Monday  2nd November, 2019 embark on physical verification of selected federal government capital projects across the six geopolitical zones of the country. According a  the statement which was signed by  the
Acting Head, Strategic Communications Directorate, Bede Ogueri Anyanwu, the
verification exercise is to be done in line with the commission’s mandate under
the fiscal responsibility act. The commission said the projects
earmarked for the capital  project verification are those in the
Northeast, North-West and north central zones of the country, South West, South
South and South East geo-political zones. Victor Muruako, the Acting Chairman,
Fiscal Responsibility Commission enjoined all the team  leaders and members to carry out the
assignment with great diligence, adding that the exercise is one of the core
mandate of Commission. “There is need to verify the
actual existence of the projects as well as monitor the progress of the work
done so far to ensure that there is value for money released for the projects. “The verification
exercise is further designed in line with the next level agenda of the present
administration in the area of prudence, accountability, value for money and
transparency in the efforts to meet the yearnings of the people. “Verification must also be done
within the Medium Term Framework (MTEF). The reason for this was to ensure that
government embark on projects that it had the ability to find. With MTEF, cases
of abandoned projects will cease to exist. “The medium term expenditure
framework shall be the basis for the preparation of the estimates of revenue
and expenditure required to be prepared and laid before the national assembly
under section 81(1) of the construction,” he said. He disclosed that some of the
projects earmarked for verification in the southwest includes the
extension  and asphalt overly of Murtala Muhammed runaway (completion of
outstanding taxiway ‘B’, and completion of control/technical tower at Ibadan
Airport. Others are rehabilitation of Lagos
Shagamu-Ibadan dual carriageway section 1 in Lagos State c/no. 6082 and
dualization of Abeokuta-Ibadan road c/no.6081. He further said that some projects
listed for north east includes federal medical centre, Jalingo, power
evacuation project at Kashimbila dam, and road construction of federal road
safety commission, Gombe. Others are construction of control
tower at Maiduguri and police secondary schools in Bauchi, Yola and Maiduguri. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.