A
coalition of media and civil society group will on Thursday, November 7, hold a
colloquium to address the shrinking media and civic space in Nigeria and attack
on journalists, media organizations and civic activists. The event holds at
NECA House, Ikeja, Lagos, at 4:00p.m. Coming barely a week after the
International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against Journalists, the
colloquium will draw attention to  the sustained attacks against
journalists and free speech in Nigeria. “Still
two months to the end of the year, 2019 has turned out to be the year when the
muzzling of journalists and independent voices and constriction of the civic
space in Nigeria has been at its worst point in recent memory,” the coalition said in a statement signed by Dr Chido
Onumah, Coordinator of the African Centre for Media and Information Literacy. To
mark this year’s International Day to End Impunity for Crimes against
Journalists, the Coalition for Whistleblower Protection and Press Freedom
(CWPPF) observed that, “From January 2019 till date, we have recorded 71
attacks on the media, including arrests, intimidation, detention and killings.
The coalition highlighted “the alarming trend of media censorship by state
authorities in Nigeria, the flagrant disobedience of court orders and the
charges of treason, terrorism and cybercrimes against citizens by Federal and
State Governments and the misuse of the state criminal justice system to
silence free expression.” The
reality of Nigeria’s media space today is that attacks on the Press continue to
occur with total impunity where Nigerian
journalistsface threats, physical attacks, detentions, intimidation,
persecution, and death for their professional work. Nigerian authorities have also continued to file criminal
charges against journalists while perpetrators and collaborators of attacks on
the Press, most often State actors, including security forces, are seldom
sanctioned or never brought to justice. In recent times, this constriction of
the media space has also extended to citizens who use social media to make
government accountable. Nigeria
has a sordid history of attacks on the media, and now on citizens who use
social media as a form of expression. Recent
reports of detention, harassment, assault and obstruction of journalists and
citizens show a troubling trend in the attempt by the state to control the
media and civic space in the country. According
to Onumah, the November 7 colloquium will call attention to these issues and
seek ways to curtail them. It will also provide a platform for journalists,
media practitioners, and multiple actors in civil society to exchange ideas on
threats to freedom of the press and citizens’ rights in the digital age. The
colloquium which will be chaired by Femi Falana, SAN, will have in attendance
as special guests Sen Shehu Sani, Chris Isiguzo, President of NUJ, and Olabisi
Deji-Folutile, former editor of Saturday Punch. The keynote will be delivered
by Odia Ofeimun with a panel made of veteran journalist, Richard Akinnola,
human rights lawyer, Jiti Ogunye, Country Director of Amnesty International,
Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, and Executive Director of Enough is Enough, Yemi
Adamolekun. The panel will be moderated by Kunle Ajibade. The
colloquium will host a Youth Advocacy Newsroom, which will bring on board young
journalists and journalism students and civil society as well as social media
activists to cover the event, expand their reporting skills, and broaden their
knowledge on issues of press freedom and the role of the media and citizens in
the era of new media. The
colloquium will also feature the launch of a new app on the Press Attack
Tracker, AsariTheBot, and the presentation of a book, Testimony to Courage, tobe reviewed by Dr Ogaga Ifowodo. The book focuses on the struggles and
successes of one of the country’s most prominent investigative journalists,
Dapo Olorunyomi.