A recent feature in news stories today are
calls from the Nigerian Government urging youths not to engage in illegal
activities to amass wealth. The latest in the series being advice from EFCC boss Ibrahim
Magu telling the youths not to “blow”, that is, not to take quick routes to wealth.
Conversely, the president’s anti-corruption fight is made evident in the media
by uncovering grand discoveries of lootings and fraud. Recently the social media celebrity known
as Mompha was outed as having laundered up to 33 billion naira. Recently the President
called for a forensic audit of the Niger
Delta Development Commission, revealing that billions of naira had been
allocated to the commission since 2001, with little to show for it. The Government’s effort to prove their
dedication to the anti-corruption fight, though commendable, seem not to have
taken into account the effects of these stories on the youths. With stories of
grand corruption plastered all over the media, the resulting effect has been
citizens engaging in grander and more complex schemes of corruption in order to
achieve success. The current minimum wage set at 30,000 naira (less than $100 a
month), has yet to be implemented due to what can only be described as
bureaucratic bottlenecks. Taxes are increasing, with the senate most recently
proposing a tax on communication services, which chairman of the Federal Inland
Revenue Service, Babatunde Fowler justified by saying “Nigerians talk a lot on
the phone”.
These realisations are not encouraging for the average citizen, who is
struggling to make ends meet. Taking into account the widespread poverty,
citizens are seemingly more drawn to these stories of corruption and wealth
amassment as no other reasonable alternative is presented to them. A wiser approach would be to incentivize
integrity. Highlight the amiable works of the crop of citizens who are doing the
nation proud in spite of the difficult conditions. What becomes of the stories
of citizens who returned huge sums of money found with little reward? The late
Stella Adadevoh, whose act of ultimate self-sacrifice helped quarantine an
Ebola scourge that threatened to wipe out large numbers of the population,
could have become a symbol for the development of medical care in the country; rather
what recently emerged was a quote from the Labour minister encouraging
disgruntled Doctors to leave the country in search of greener pastures. A story from
the Vice President urging the
youths not to depend on their formal education does not speak well of
specialization, especially with the realisations of politicians sending their
children abroad for schooling. As it stands there seems to be little incentive
for study or good will. An expose from statistician general of the
federation revealed threats to his life for attempting to do his job diligently, from fellow government
officials nonetheless. We need more support for campaigns such as
Integrity Icon, a program of Accountability Lab which identifies honest and
outstanding Government officials and celebrates them, exposing their efforts to
the world and instilling hope in the system. Most recently the campaign got an
endorsement from the Embassy of Sweden to Nigeria, in an event titled “Meet the Icons”. Sweden, which ranked sixth in
a 2017 Transparency International Corruption Perception Index, knows the
importance of celebrating those who extol virtue. A productive economy can only
come from a motivated citizenry, whose productivity and creativity are
recognised, and most importantly, supported.