 Less than 48 hours to November 16, 2019, Kogi State Governorship election, political actors have failed to de-escalate the tension, which had been building up in the State. Unfortunately, this has set the stage for what could be a very bloody electoral process, if urgent action is not taken to address the situation. It is disheartening that political gladiators across the partisan divide have shown no apparent signs of refraining from using vitriolic rhetoric capable of inflaming passions, which could result in dire consequences for voter confidence and turnout and the credibility of the entire process. At the CDD
Elections Analysis Centre, we believe the credibility of an election does not
rest exclusively with happenings on the polls or outcome of the elections. To
us, equally crucial is the nature of the environment heading into the polls,
and mainly how it contributes to the unfettered participation of all
stakeholders, especially political contestants in the process. Leveraging on
its network of accredited observers, grassroots organisations and journalists,
CDD has been keeping a close watch on developments in the Kogi state ahead of
the November 16 vote. Our findings from
the observation of the pre-election environment point to a very volatile
political environment, characterised by fierce rhetoric, threats of violence
and actual incidents of violence. A case in point is the recent attack on the
State Secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), whose governorship
candidate, Natasha Akpoti is one of the only three women contesting for the
governorship election. CDD further observes that such vicious political attacks
in the State are capable of also discouraging marginalised groups, especially
women from participating in the political process and particularly from
contesting for political office. Long term
observers tracking early warning signs of violence capable of undermining
participation and overall voter confidence have flagged cases of violent
physical attacks between supporters of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and
the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Attacks have also been recorded during
campaign rallies and party activities. And there are reports of women being
intimidated from voting in the election. According to the
Kogi State Conflict Scan Analysis recently released by Search for Common Ground
(SFCG), Dekina and Ankpa LGA have recorded the highest number of violent
attacks among party members and supporters. For example, on October 19, 2019, a
party supporter was shot dead in Ayingba during one of the political party
rallies. The number of death recorded in Anyingba and Ankpa communities is seemingly
alarming. The conflict analysis also points to a rise in the use of political
thugs to perpetrate violence, as this was recorded in Dekina, Ankpa, Olamaboro,
Omala, and Idah LGA. CDD notes with dismay reports of the stockpiling of arms
and other dangerous weapons by rival political camps. In this regard, CDD notes
recent arrest of a chieftain of one of the major parties on allegation of
illegal possession of firearms.  Equally
disturbing is the rise in politically motivated attacks on candidates, the
destruction of property of political contestants, as well as threats of
reprisal attacks by rival political camps. At the last count
also, the threats of violence and actual incidents of violent disturbances,
including the condemnable arson on the party secretariat of the Social
Democratic Party (SDP) could have the effect of making voters stay away from
the polls. In the face of these threats and actual manifestations of violence,
it is our considered position that the security agencies empowered by the
constitution and other extant laws should no longer stand by and watch the
perpetrators go scot-free. If in the build-up to the election, thugs mobilised by
partisan actors are allowed to go on the rampage, the implication is that on
Election Day, they will consider the inaction of the security as a green light
to use more violence to subvert the electoral process. It is therefore
unacceptable that there have been few arrests made by the security agencies. INEC Preparations INEC projects
that voting will take place in 3,508 polling units across 239 wards in 21 Local
Government Areas (LGAs) in Kogi State. CDD observes that INEC preparation is in
top gear, with assurances that no stone will be left unturned to deliver a
credible poll. CDD, however, calls on INEC to tie up all loose ends concerning
the deployment of ad-hoc staff to the field. In this regard, the welfare of
ad-hoc staff, especially youth corps members, should be treated with utmost urgency.
INEC must also ensure the safety and security of these patriotic men and women working
in this tense election. CDD calls on INEC to consider making special
arrangements, including hiring security if there are gaps in providing cover
from the usual channels. However, if the
recent history of electoral violence targeting INEC in Kogi State is anything
to go by, it is imperative for clear preventive and contigency plans to be made
by INEC. It would be recalled that in December 2015, during the governorship
election, the INEC office in Dekina LGA was razed by fire in what was suspected
to be an attack by thugs working for some partisan interests. CDD is of the
considered view that the risk of violence if not proactively and decisively
addressed, could have severe consequences for the smooth conduct and
ultimately, the credibility of the election. INEC has already
raised “warning signals” on the possibility of thugs mobilised by political
actors disrupting the conduct of the elections as was witnessed in previous
elections. In the light of concerns, it is imperative for INEC to proactively
engage with plans to thwart and mitigate any hitches likely to be occasioned by
partisan interests in the elections. Role of Security Agencies The Nigeria
Police has reportedly deployed over 35,000 officers, with four officers
detailed to man each polling unit. Also, the police in the face of the clear
and present threat of violence has promised to provide a visible presence to
prevent violence and make the electoral terrain safe for voters, INEC staff and
election observers. Beyond these measures, however, CDD is of the view that the
effectiveness of the deployment of officers would not lie in the big numbers alone.
The neutrality and the level of professionalism on display by the police personnel
on the ground would go a long way to determine how effective they are. As
experience in previous elections, including the 2019 general elections has
shown, without adequate oversight, the security agencies could forget their
responsibilities and begin to act in connivance with partisan interests to
subvert the electoral process. Curbing Threat of Vote Buying CDD has received
widespread reports of politicians inducing voters with cash, gift items and
food. Reports indicate this anomaly has been observed to be at a very high
level in Ankpa, Okehi and Lokoja. As the electoral process continues to grapple
with the severe challenge posed by vote-buying, CDD reiterates its call on the
electorate to shun political actors attempting to induce them to trade away
their votes. Where such
persuasion fails to work, the mooted collaboration between INEC and the
anti-graft agencies, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and
the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC)
should be quickly firmed up to identify and arrest perpetrators. De- Campaigning
Instead of Campaign. The Centre for
Democracy and Development has been working on countering fake news and
disinformation in Kogi state ahead of the elections. Our monitoring revealed
the instrumentalisation of fake news and disinformation by the leading
political parties. The parties created a structure comprising of false news
proponents referred to as the Shekpe boys and the data boys.  Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp are the
leading platforms used to spread disinformation. CDD monitoring revealed
disinformation is tailored to serve several purposes; notably to hurt an
opponent, to delegitimise INEC, to counter an attack, to divert attention from
critical issues and always seek to gain attention by becoming viral. The belief
by political parties and candidates that the other side is utilising fake news
to gain votes and win the elections increases efforts in deploying
disinformation. Instead of engaging in an issue-based campaign, the political
parties have relied more on de-campaigning their opponents. CDD observed that
the spread of disinformation around emotive issues such as ethnicity and
violence got significant traction on social media. We found people are more
susceptible to believe this because of the high levels of confirmation bias.
CDD calls on the Press, citizens and relevant stakeholders to beware of fake
news on election day. We envisage that the political parties volume of fake
news on the election will be high. We project a high likelihood of false report
swirling around; contrived late arrival of election materials, missing election
materials, violence, electoral malpractices and rigging, and sharing of fake
election results. We do not preclude such happenings in such a closely
contested election but are warning citizens to beware of fake news and the
media to refrain from reporting such news without confirming to avoid raising
tension in the State. Conclusion While wishing the good people of Kogi State peaceful and credible
polls, we again reiterate previous calls on: As the voters in Kogi State go to the poll on November 16, CDD
admonishes that the most fundamental outcome, which all stakeholders, including
the political actors, should work towards is to have free, fair and credible
elections, which would reflect the democratic choices and mandate of the
people. Regardless of the outcome of the governorship and the senatorial rerun elections,
 what should be of interest to all
stakeholders is the will of the people prevails. CDD calls on the political
actors to rein in supporters with violent tendencies, especially as their
activities create a legitimacy problem for the electoral process and the entire
democratic system in Nigeria. The rising incidents of violent attacks, vote-buying and
intimidation of rival camps make it imperative for the security agencies
involved in the process to act with decisiveness and utmost professionalism.
CDD calls on INEC to work closely with law enforcement agencies to prevent all
infractions capable of undermining voter confidence, and ultimately the
credibility of the elections. Methodology for CDD EAC Deployment The CDD EAC
deployment plan is based on purposive sampling technique, adopted to sample the
political wards and polling units (PUs) in all the local government areas
(LGAs) to which CDD observers are to be deployed for the Kogi State
governorship election. As a non-probability sampling technique, purposive
sampling enabled us to decide which wards and PUs require close observation in
the election drawing from extant observation of the situation and political
contextual analysis of the State. Hence, the choice of wards and PUs to be
observed was informed by the following consideration: In all, CDD EAC
observers will cover an average of 50 per cent of all political wards the 21
LGAs and selected PUs in the wards. CDD is also deploying trained journalists
to all LGAs in Kogi State to observe and gather information on accreditation,
voting and collation processes. Signed PROF. ADELE JINADU IDAYAT HASSAN
Chairman CDD EAC Director CDD  Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.