Barely 24 hours to its general election,  Southern Kaduna Peoples Union(SOKAPU) is facing an existential threat as the Corporate Affairs Commission(CAC) and  a  splinter group within the organisation are questioning its legitimacy, Newsdiaryonline    has learnt. A source told this news platform
that CAC has denied SOKAPU registration, arguing that its activities are more
political in nature than a socio-cultural umbrella body for all Southern Kaduna
ethnic nationalities. In a letter dated 19th October 2019
and signed by Olumide Ologe for the Registrar-General, CAC  made its
decision known to SOKAPU, Newsdairyonline  has learnt. According to the letter, Mr Ologe
stated that  “I am directed to inform you that the Commission is
unable to grant consent to register the above name. Our decision is based on
the fact that the Association has by its activities been political in
nature.” Sources confirmed to Newsdiaryonline
that  members and the leadership of SOKAPU  have been thrown into a
deep state of confusion, as they  fear that the days of the union are
numbered. The group’s critics  suggest that some political interests in
Southern Kaduna have been using SOKAPU as a platform to antagonise both the
 federal and Kaduna state government, thereby heightening tension
 Southern Kaduna senatorial zone. Our source further said that SOKAPU
rank and file have been weighing several options in order to carry on their
activities, following the non CAC registration. Said Suleiman Adams, a Kaduna-based
 political analyst, said that  “the options before SOKAPU is
either to apply to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),for
registration as a political party or wind up its activities. The CAC,has only
confirmed what we have always been saying that SOKAPU is a political online
party and not a socio-cultural body. ” Meanwhile, it was further learnt that  a splinter group may
 emerge from the body, if card carrying members of any political party
 are cleared to contest for the elections, another source told
Newsdiaryonline. Hon Jonathan Asake, one time member
of the House of Representatives, has been cleared to contest for the
presidency. Also, Mr Luka Binniyat, a former correspondent with Vanguard
newspapers, has been given the go-ahead to contest for the Public Relations
Officer(PRO) of SOKAPU. Both are believed  to be   sympathisers  of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and
their contest is polarising the southern Kaduna umbrella body, another highly
placed source told Newsdiaryonline. Specifically, Comrade Paul Aliyu
National Coordinator Southern Kaduna Roundtable(SORT),who has been agitating
for the restoration of SOKAPU  to its original mandate, has  vowed to
resist the emergence of card carrying politicians, who have divided their
 people. According to him, these politicians
have been hiding under the banner of SOKAPU to feather the political nests, by
engaging  the Nasir El-Rufai administration in needless political battles. “If candidates for elections into the exco are card-carrying members of any political party, Then, The incoming crop of excos will be  carbon copy of the last one; Therefore, dead on arrival “ The denial of SOKAPU registration by CAC has been viewed as shocking as the development which has left many questions unanswered.For instances, does it mean SOKAPU which has been in existence for several years been hitherto unregistered?