By Chimezie Godfrey The International Centre for
Investigative Reporting (ICIR) has urged the government to provide a database
for missing persons especially in the northeastern part of the country where
thousands of persons are reportedly missing in recent times. The centre stated this on Wednesday
in Abuja during the roundtable meeting on Justice for Missing Persons in the
North-East, organized by the International Centre for Investigative Reporting
(ICIR) in collaboration with Ford Foundation. Dayo Aiyetan, the Executive Director, ICIR,
stressed the need for the government to develop a database for information for
missing persons and provide psychological, legal and other supports for the families
of these persons, particularly the women and the children. He said, “We want government to
do something, what we want government to do is provide information, that is,
develop a database of information that these women can work with. “And then start to think of
providing psychological support for some of them, and then other people who
should provide legal support and other kinds of supports for the family
members, the women and the children will able to do their bit. Hamsatu Allamin, the Executive
Director, Allamin  Foundation for Persons
and Development, Maiduguri, also decried the fact  that Nigeria do not have a national database
that can account for every Nigerians. She complained about poor
government response to the plight of the people of the North-East, especially
the military who she allegedly accused of indiscriminate arrests due to their
inability to distinguish between none members and members of boko-haram. “If you are a male, particularly
a Muslim and then Kanuri in that part of the country, automatically you are branded
a Boko-Haram. Sometimes you don’t even blame the military because all they see
are youths coming out of the communities attacking them and coming back into
the communities and disappearing. “So, at a point they started
indiscriminate burning of all our houses and arresting our youths
indiscriminately. So, I said I have to know why these boys are doing what they
are doing and try if possible to stop it, that 
was how I came into it,” she said. Allamin pointed out the people
who are mostly affected are women whose sons and loved ones have been arrested
by the Nigerian military and some forcefully adopted and recruited by boko-haram. She revealed that people who are
victims of these atrocities are in hundreds of thousands and unaccounted for,
and that nobody is saying anything about them. She therefore called on the
government to be alive to its primary responsibility of ensuring the safety and
security of everyone, “I want the government to make the security agencies to
declare how many people they have arrested since this conflict started and then
detain them in their military detention facilities, and how many have died in
those detention facilities,” she said. Senator Ali Ndume, the chairman, senate
committee on Defence said the number of persons missing in the northeast cannot
be accurately quantified due to lack of database, and because of the high level
of poverty and illiteracy in the region. Ndume called for justice for the
missing persons, adding that justice is to get the missing persons back to
their communities. He also urged Nigerians to hold the government accountable
for the missing persons in the northeast. The roundtable after an extensive
panel session identified some challenges regarding the accountability of
missing persons in the northeast which includes, the unending problem of forced
disappearances, secret and unlawful detentions, inhuman torture, sexual assault
of female detainees, forced marriages, and the complicity of security agencies,
especially officers of the Nigerian Army deployed to the region, in these
events. They also identified lackadaisical
attitude and lack of political will on the part of government both at the state
and federal level, and also both at the executive and legislative level and
lack of a comprehensive database containing the identities of citizens and
residents of the country, among others. In the light of the above, the
meeting came up with recommendations which includes that there should be a
database with the government covering people who are being incarcerated, to
match against allegations of persons going missing or being extrajudicially
killed, and the rules of warfare, which require that the government must
account for the missing and the dead, should be upheld, among others. The roundtable brought together
human rights activists, media practitioners, participants from non-governmental
organizations, government security agencies, as well as representatives of
government (including the National Assembly, Ministries, Departments, and
Agencies) that deliberated on what can be done to improve the conditions of
residents of violence-stricken regions in the country, particularly the
North-east, who have gone missing or have been abducted and their loved ones. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.