As part of the
concerted efforts to further grow the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG)
business in the Country, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Mallam Mele Kyari, has said that the Final
Investment Decision (FID) for NLNG Train 7 would be executed next month. Mallam Kyari made
this disclosure Thursday in Abuja while receiving the Chairman and Group Chief
Executive Officer, Total Group, Patrick Jean Pouyanné and other top management
of the Group, a release by NNPC Acting Group General Manager, Group Public
Affairs, Mr. Samson Makoji, has said. Mallam Kyari
stated that the corporation would continue to align its business processes with
its partners in accordance with global best practices for the benefit of the
investments and for the good of Nigerians who, he noted, remained the key
shareholders of the National Oil Company. “We see Total
Exploration and Production as a total partner. Total is one of the few
multinational oil companies in Nigeria that are fully integrated with their
visible footprints from the Upstream to the Downstream Oil and Gas Sector,”
Mallam Kyari averred. He described
Nigeria as the best investment destination in Africa with the largest growing
economy and with a population of over 200million that made it the largest
market for Oil and Gas products in Africa. Mallam Kyari
applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for creating an enabling investment
environment for the Oil and Gas Industry and urged the Total Group and other
International Oil and Gas companies to take advantage of the abundant conducive
opportunities in the Petroleum Sector. The NNPC helmsman
assured the Total Group of the corporation’s unflinching partnership and
implored them to bring to fruition all their ongoing investment portfolios for
the benefit of the Joint Venture. Earlier, the
Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer, Total Group, Pouyanné, said Nigeria
was very important to the Total Group, saying that the Egina FPSO was currently
producing 200,000 barrels per day. He reassured that
the Total Group would continue to invest in more deep-water projects in Nigeria
and described the NLNG project as a very important asset that his company was
deeply committed to. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.