The Federal Government has announced the postponement of the 2019 Abuja Carnival tagged “Culture for Peace”, earlier scheduled to hold from Nov. 23 to Nov. 25. The announcement was contained in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Culture, Mr Joseph Mutah issued on Tuesday in Abuja. “The Federal Ministry of Information and Culture has announced the postponement of the 2019 Abuja Carnival. “The Ministry apologized to all invited guests for any inconvenience the postponement might have caused. “A new date will be announced for the Carnival in due course,” the statement read. The Abuja carnival is an annual event, with the objective of preserving the rich cultural heritage of the country and enhancing national unity. It is a yearly programme that holds in Abuja featuring road shows, music, cultural dances, masquerades, durbar and lots more with participation from all the states in Nigeria. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest. Highly energetic blog, I enjoyed that a lot.
Will there be a part 2? Hi there everybody, here every one is sharing such knowledge, therefore it’s good
to read this blog, and I used to pay a quick visit this webpage all the time. If you wish for to obtain a great deal from this article then you have to apply such
methods to your won blog. It’s a shame you don’t have a donate button! I’d certainly donate
to this fantastic blog! I guess for now i’ll settle for book-marking and adding your
RSS feed to my Google account. I look forward to fresh updates and will share this website
with my Facebook group. Chat soon! It’s going to be end of mine day, however before ending I am
reading this great paragraph to improve my experience. Hello to all, how is all, I think every one is getting more
from this web site, and your views are good in support of new users. Asking questions are truly pleasant thing if you are not understanding something entirely,
but this post gives good understanding yet. I was extremely pleased to find this website. I want to to thank you for ones time due to this fantastic read!! I definitely really liked every part of it and i also have you bookmarked to look at new stuff on your website. http:///www.manulescu.com – manumanu I’m very happy to find this web site. I wanted to thank you for your time for this wonderful read!! I definitely liked every bit of it and I have you saved as a favorite to look at new things on your web site. I was looking for this information for quite some time now . Keep us updated You can check my website here: Miami Movers Very nice post. I just stumbled upon your blog and wished to say that
I have really enjoyed surfing around your blog posts.
After all I will be subscribing to your rss feed and
I hope you write again soon! Thanks for posting this info. Its really usefull but check the spelling because I noticed few errors. You can check my site also here: magazin pescuit bucuresti sector 2 I was looking for this information for quite some time now. Thankyou You can check my site also here: gazduire web gratuita this is really usefull. You are a great writer, keep it up You can check my site also here: gazduire site web This is as a matter of fact good information my friend. you are a very good scribe . i lust after to share with you my website as well. proclaim me what do you think about it https://medium.com/@motivoscem/where-to-buy-youtube-views-and-why-buy-cheap-youtube-views-89007d6035dd really nice This is really beneficial tidings my friend. you are a remarkably most luxurious novelist . i dearth to dividend with you my website as well. command me what do you think approximately it buy youtube views Thankyou again for posting such good content. Cheers This is a most interesting post. Control it up and you will be the best. What do you think about my site ? https://repairshare7.webgarden.cz Hi there! I understand this is kind of off-topic however I had to ask.
Does managing a well-established blog such
as yours require a lot of work? I am brand new to
blogging however I do write in my diary on a daily basis.
I’d like to start a blog so I can share my own experience and
feelings online. Please let me know if you have any
kind of suggestions or tips for brand new aspiring
blog owners. Appreciate it! Paragraph writing is also a excitement, if you be
acquainted with then you can write otherwise it is difficult to write. Its like you read my mind! You seem to know a lot about this, like you wrote the book in it or something.
I think that you could do with some pics to drive the message
home a little bit, but instead of that, this is wonderful blog.
An excellent read. I will certainly be back. After going over a number of the blog articles on your site, I seriously appreciate your way of blogging. I added it to my bookmark webpage list and will be checking
back in the near future. Please visit my website as well and tell me what you think. I read this post fully regarding the resemblance of most up-to-date and previous technologies,
it’s awesome article.