Upon
retirement from active service, I have had sufficient time to reflect on the
state of the nation. Undoubtedly, all is not well with Nigeria.  Cherished values of respect, hard work,
integrity, honesty, generosity, tolerance, amongst others, are no longer
demonstrated as worthy virtues. Many, instead, desire to always have their way,
no matter what or who is affected in the process. Meanwhile, reminiscing with nostalgia
on the article written by my friend, Simon Shango, (from Pika, Gboko Local
Government Area of Benue State) in Daily Trust Newspaper of 14th
November, 2019 (pages 42 & 43), I can confidently say that, all hope is not
lost since there still exists noble northerners and others who have already
passed on to the great beyond; whose lives and stewardship are worthy of
emulation. Truly, they have set the pace and foundation for growth, unity and
development of the region and country at large As
a beneficiary of good goodwill, I owe the north, my home, the duty to share my
thoughts and experience about some of the northerners I consider noble.  It is exciting to mention a former Governor of
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Alhaji Abdulkadir Ahmed, from Azare, Bauchi
State, together with Mohammad Kollere from the present Yobe State, Alhaji
Yerima Abdullahi, former Minister of Education and Alhaji Maiyaki of CBN, whom
I knew in Jos in earlier days and others, whom I later came to regard as a
“caucus” of northerners in Lagos. I later found out that this informal group played
a pivotal role in my appointment in 1985 by Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (then
Military Head of State), as Executive Director in charge of Procurement and
Marketing in the Nigerian National Supply Company. I believe that their
collective input was key to that appointment. Owing to some certain
developments which I did not like, I seriously contemplated returning to my position
as Permanent Secretary in the Plateau State civil service, from where I had
been seconded to the company for an initial period of two years in the first
instance, as was the practice. It was Abdulkadir Ahmed and his friends, notably
Kollere and Yerima Abdullahi, who dissuaded me from doing so. Instead, they
insisted that I must remain in Lagos and to this end, Alhaji Abdulkadir advised
me to report to his office soonest to complete the form for appointment into
the Central Bank. Even before then, I had earlier approached Malam Adamu Fika
(Wazirin Fika), who hails from Fika Emirate of Yobe State. He was then Head of
Civil Service of the Federation, who promptly effected my deployment to the Ministry
of Petroleum Resources, pending my formal transfer to the Federal Civil
Service. In the course of time, I have come to learn he mentored many northerners
from virtually every part of the region without a scintilla of prejudice or
discrimination. He remains an icon and father figure deserving utmost respect. I
dare say he is the noblest of them all and it would not be out of place for the
Arewa Consultative Forum to award to him the Grand Noble of the North (GNN), if
such a title exists! The
Ministry of Petroleum Resources was created in 1986 and I was the first and
only Director for some time under Dr. Rilwanu Lukman, as Minister – a quintessential
gentleman and diplomat. Throughout the years I served under Dr. Lukman,  he treated me as a brother, engaging me in
nearly all aspects of the petroleum industry, especially the restructuring and
subsidiarisation of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), as an
international integrated oil company. He included me in his delegation to  all OPEC Ministerial Conferences as well as
that of African Petroleum Producers Association (APPA) as National
Representative on the Committee of Experts. Interestingly, when Professor Jibril
Aminu succeeded Dr, Lukman, the brotherly treatment was no different. He was
instrumental to my appointment as Nigeria’s Governor to the Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). It is noteworthy that I, a northern
minority and a Christian from Plateau State, could be so kindly treated by Dr.
Lukman and Professor Aminu, both, pious Muslims and Fulani from the ancient
Fombina Kingdom (Adamawa) and Zazzau Emirate (Zaria), respectively. It will be
recalled, Dr. Rilwanu Lukman was OPEC President for many unprecedented
consecutive terms, predicated on the respect, confidence and admiration his
colleagues had for him in view of his ability to achieve consensus particularly
on the allocation of production quotas for member-states, a very difficult thing
to achieve at that time given the market fundamentals. He was one of “The Three
Wise Men” of OPEC, the other two being Dr. Subroto of Indonesia and Arturo
Hernandez Grisanti of Venezuela. Dr. Lukman was a leader with immense ability
who became the Secretary General of OPEC before his demise. Another
noble northerner I know and served under, was Alhaji Jibrin Ahmed, at one time
Commissioner for Trade and Industry, Plateau State, and former Chairman Bank of
the North (now Unity Bank). He was from Nasarawa State of the Hausa/Fulani
extraction. He was a friend to some of the personalities mentioned earlier and
played a part in my movement to Lagos. Another amiable
personality is Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu (Walin Bauchi). Despite being a Muslim from
Bauchi State, he continues to provide assistance in some vital projects run by
voluntary organizations in Plateau State; where he schooled and lived for a
long time. He has not ceased to be easily accessible to Christians and Muslims
alike. Oh…!
How can I forget a man with a large heart, former Governor of Plateau State
(1979 – 1983) Chief Solomon Daushep Lar (Walin Langtang)? He was a father to
all and generous to a fault. He demonstrated the spirit of a true northerner by
appointing a number of Nigerians, non-indigenes of Plateau State, into key positions
in his administration. I recall, he appointed Mrs Janet Akirinade from Oyo
State as Commissioner for Revenue and Dr. Chris Abashiya from Kaduna State as
Adviser on Higher Education. Additionally, Dr. Haroun Adamu from Bauchi State
and Chief Areoye Oyebola from Oyo State were appointed as Members of the Board
of the Plateau Publishing Company. Chief “S.D. Lar”, as he was fondly called,
appointed an Igbo man from the east, as Special Assistant and member of the
Board of the aforementioned company. Solomon Lar was the undisputed leader of
the Middle Belt, after Tarka, and a highly respected son of the north. He was a
“complete Nigerian” as defined by one of Nigeria’s founding fathers, Chief
Anthony Enahoro. Alhaji
Aliyu Mohammed (Aliyu Maijama’a), former Federal Permanent Secretary, highly
detribalized, gregarious and engaging; was another northern noble. His
residence in Ikoyi, Lagos, could appropriately be described as “Peoples
House”, similar to that of Solomon Lar’s in Jos. “Aliyu Maijama’a”
welcomed everybody to his home – Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa, Muslim, Christian, etc.
Malam
Aminu Kano needs no introduction. Suffice to say, he belonged to the opposition,
yet, was able to work with the government at different times. He was a great
leader in his own right, who championed the cause of the masses (talakawa)
throughout his life. May his soul rest in perfect peace. I
remember, Da Loh D. B. Zang (Danboyi Zang Gyel) who was a prominent miner,
politician and father to all on the Plateau. I can say without any equivocation
that, there has not been any like him after his demise. Also, His Royal Highness
Da (Dr.) Fom Bot (late Gbong Gwom Jos), who promoted harmonious and peaceful
coexistence amongst the various ethnic groups before his demise in 2002, was an
exemplary northern traditional ruler. Mention
must be made of Maitama Sule, a man of impressive oratorical skills and former Nigeria’s
 Permanent Representative to the United
Nations and Minister, who throughout his life, demonstrated the virtues of
honesty and integrity. There was also a one-time Secretary to the Federal
Government, who hailed from Azare, Bauchi State, Alhaji Aminu Saleh.  He was a highly principled public officer who
treated civil servants strictly on merit. He recommended me for appointment as
Federal Permanent Secretary even when he did not know me in person. It was only
after the appointment that we got to meet each other when he told me he
examined my records thoroughly before recommending me! Alhaji
Waziri Ibrahim was also in the constellation of northern nobles from Borno
State. The apostle of “politics without bitterness”, Waziri Ibrahim was the
founder and financier of the Great Nigerian People’s Party (GNPP) and its
candidate in the 1979 Presidential elections. In 1960, he was part of the
Nigerian delegation to the United Nations when the country was accepted as the
99th member of the UN. If
mention is made of Ambassador Edwin Ogbu as Mr Shango did, one should not fail
to mention his contemporary, Ambassador Sule Kolo, former Nigeria’s High
Commissioner to the United Kingdom. He was the first president of the Nigerian-American
Chamber of Commerce, under whose leadership the First Jos International Trade
Fair was held in 1981, with yours sincerely, as one of his associates. Although
Ambassador Sule Kolo and his siblings, Ambassador Dalhatu Kolo and Haruna Bako
Kolo (Permanent Secretary in the old Plateau State) were of the Nupe extraction
from Niger State, they lived and passed on in Jos, Plateau State, which was
their real home. I
remember Malam Hamza Zayyad, former Managing Director, Northern Nigeria
Development Corporation (NNDC), Kaduna, who first midwifed the privatization programme
during the Babangida regime. Significantly too is Malam Musa Bello, father of the
present Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, (Muhammad Musa Bello). The
duo of Musa Bello and Hamza Zayyad nurtured the NNDC to a giant holding company
with investments in commerce, industry, hospitality, etc. in all parts of the
north. What
of Alhaji Abubakar Alhaji, from the Sokoto caliphate, popularly known and
called “Triple A”? He was a legendary public sector financial manager. He
demonstrated this during his times as Federal Permanent Secretary and Minister
of Finance and National Planning. Also, I admire the amiable and self-effacing
late Secretary to the Government and Head of Civil Service of the Federation,
Gidado Idris, who hailed from Zaria. Incidentally,
Simon Shango in his article “Where are the noble Northerners?” on page 42,
Daily Trust Newspaper, 14th November, 2019 mentioned Dr. R.A.B.
Dikko as a northern Muslim. Let it be on record that, Dr. R.A.B. Dikko was a
Fulani Christian from Wusasa, Zaria. The history books mentioned him as the
founder of Northern Peoples Congress and Minister of Health in the Northern
Regional Government. He was the father of my late bosom friend, Engr. Buhari
Dikko, one of the leading pioneers for the development of the FCT, Abuja. It is
gratifying to note, Dr. Dikko has been immortalized by the naming of a street
after him in Abuja. Late
Malam Yahaya Hamza, from Kaduna State, was a foremost educationist, who retired
as a Federal Permanent Secretary. He was the father of the present Minister of
Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed. He did a lot to
promote secondary education in the country. Malam
Liman Ciroma, former Secretary to the Federal Government, should not be left
out. Also, Alhaji Shehu Musa, Makaman Nupe, was a leading light in the north
who left indelible marks in the sands of time. He was one-time Secretary to the
Federal Government, Chairman of National Population Commission and National
Commissioner INEC. Cardinal John Onaiyekan from Kogi State and His Eminence the
Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III have been doing a lot in the
promotion of interfaith dialogue and understanding across the country and should
be on the high table. Barrister
Baba Adi-Byewi, of  blessed memory, was a
Jukun prince from Taraba State, whose friendship cut across all divides in the States
of the North and beyond. Meanwhile, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe can be
described as an archetypal diplomat, astute administrator, cerebral,
cosmopolitan and consummate politician. He eminently qualifies to be counted
amongst the northern nobles. Malam
Mamman Daura is a man I have never met but I very much took delight in reading
his editorials in the popular New Nigerian newspaper. Much encomiums have been
showered on him by many. A few have criticized him. In any case, is there any
mortal without blemish? Absolutely none! So, on a balance, he merits a front
seat in the assemblage of northern nobles. A
noble northerner who needs no introduction is Aliko Dangote. So far, no son of
the north has done the region proud, as he has, in the field of commerce and industry.
Simple and humble, like the likes of Bill Gates, he is a shining example for
northern youths to emulate. Munzali Dantata, founder of All States Travels, is another
unassuming noble! It
is a great pleasure to mention some northern nationalists and Pan-Africanists
such as the incorruptible Balarabe Musa, former Governor of Kaduna State and
immediate past Chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). Retired Colonel
Dangiwa Umar and Brigadier General Ja’afaru Isa, both served as Governors of
former Kaduna State. Dangiwa Umar is cast in the same mould as former Burkinabe
leader, Thomas Sankara, while Ja’afaru Isa promoted peace and understanding between
the diverse peoples of Kaduna State. How
can I forget some outstanding members of the Fourth Estate of the Realm? These
include: Razaq Aremu from Kwara and first acting Editor of New Nigerian
newspaper; Dan Agbese from Benue State; Yakubu Abdulazeez, from Kwara; Mohammed
Haruna from Niger State, presently a National Commissioner, Independent
National Electoral Commission (INEC); Dr Haroun Adamu; Simon Shango and George
Ohemu, both from Benue State; Richard Umaru from Kaduna; Sam Nda Isaiah, from
Niger State; Wada Maida; Hajiya Bilkisu Yusuf from Kano; Zainab Okino from
Kogi; Mannir Dan Ali and Mahmud Jega, both of Daily Trust Newspapers; Rufai
Ibrahim, from Nasarawa State; Sidi Ali and Farouk Muhammad, etc. I
would not hesitate to say that Gen. Yakubu Gowon is one of the noblest northerners
after the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of Sokoto and Sir Abubakar Tafawa
Balewa. He remains a nationalist before anything else, who puts the unity of  Nigeria far and above any other consideration. In
all sincerity, Governor Nasir el-Rufa’i ought to join the roll call. It was he,
as FCT Minister, that diligently and assiduously implemented the city’s master
plan, to bring it to the beautiful city it is today, despite
obstacles placed on his way. I imagine that were it not for el-Rufa’i, Abuja
could have been a big ghetto today! Finally,
in all honesty, I must not fail to mention President Muhammadu Buhari. When he
was Head of State (1984 – 1985), he appointed me, a minority from the north, Executive
Director in the Nigerian National Supply Company. Upon my retirement from the
Federal Civil Service as Permanent Secretary, General Buhari, then Chairman
Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF) awarded a company, of which I was nominal Director,
a contract of N70.4 million in 1995, again, even though he did not know me. This
was by no means a small sum at that time. Meanwhile, when I was Chairman of the
National Population Commission, it was my modus
operandi to inform critical stakeholders periodically, in all the States of
the federation of the activities of the Commission. This included former Heads
of State. In 2010 or thereabout, President Buhari surprised me, when in
acknowledging one of my reports, enclosed for me a gift of two thousand naira,
in two minted notes of  one thousand
naira each, with the remarks: “here is one for the Christmas and the other for
the season,” the latter presumably the New Year. I therefore often wonder why
some people accuse him of being a religious zealot. If the adage that “action
speaks louder than words” is true, then to me, President Buhari is a
nationalist of the first order! I
am happy to have the opportunity to contribute this for the records, especially
for the younger generation of northerners. This, nonetheless, comes with a loud
call to all Nigerians to emulate the exemplary nobleness of the people
mentioned in the article under reference and this rejoinder. In closing, I
appreciate my friend, Simon Shango, for dutifully provoking this discourse. Samu’ila Danko
Makama CON Retired Federal
Permanent Secretary & former Chairman, National Population
Commission. Nyengu/Sarkin
Yamma Quarters, Gindiri, Plateau State. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.