The
Federal Government has launched the Campaign For The Return and Restitution of
Nigeria’s Looted and Smuggled Artifacts from around the world.
The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, launched the
campaign at a press conference in Lagos on Thursday.
“With this announcement, we are putting on notice all those who are holding on
to Nigeria’s cultural property anywhere in the world that we are coming for
them, using all legal and diplomatic instruments
available. Gentlemen, we are under no illusion that this will be an easy task,
but no one should also doubt our determination to make a success of this
campaign,” he said.
Alhaji Mohammed said Nigeria cannot imagine by what logic an Ife Bronze or a
Benin Bronze or a Nok Terracotta can belong to any other part of the globe
except to the people of Nigeria, whose ancestors
made them.
“We have never laid claim to the Mona Lisa or a Rembrandt. Those who looted our
heritage resources, especially during the 19th century wars, or those who
smuggled them out of the country for pecuniary
reasons, have simply encouraged the impoverishment of our heritage and stealing
of our past,” he said..
The Minister said these timeless and priceless pieces of work are an important
part of the nation’s past, its history, and heritage resource, and that
allowing them to sit in the museums of other
nations robs Nigeria of our history.
He said in its quest to diversify the economy by leveraging on the culture and
tourism sector, the government considers these priceless artifacts as critical
components of the diversification drive.
Alhaji Mohammed said in launching the campaign, Nigeria is emboldened by
Article 4 of the UNESCO 1970 Convention, to which most nations subscribe, which
identifies the categories of cultural property that form part of the cultural
heritage of each member state, thereby belonging to that State.
He said by the provisions of the Article, they include cultural property
created by the individual or collective genius of nationals of the State
concerned, and cultural property which has been the
subject of a freely agreed exchange or received as a gift or purchased legally
with the consent of the competent authorities of the country of origin of such
property.
The Minister also said the Heads of State and Government of the ECOWAS Region
met in December 2018 in Abuja and adopted a Political Declaration on the return
of cultural property to their countries of
origin, adding: ”We are bound by this Declaration, which has further brought
discussions towards a Plan of Action.”
He called on every museum and person holding on to the nation’s heritage
resources anywhere in the world to initiate dialogue with the federal
government, saying: ”We urge them to identify what is in
their collections, transparently make them public, approach us for discussion
on terms of return and restitution, as well as circulation and loans. They must
acknowledge that ownership resides in us. They must be ready to sign agreements
and Memoranda of Understanding in this regard, and they must be ready to
release some of these antiquities for immediate return to Nigeria.”
He said the government will kick-start the campaign with a quest to retrieve
the Ife Broze Head, which was one of the items stolen in 1987 when one of the
country’s national museums was broken into.
”After it was brought to an auction in London two years ago, the auction house
observed that it was an Ife Bronze Head which belongs to the ICOM
(International Council of Museums) Red List of cultural goods that are deemed
to be the most vulnerable to illicit traffic.
”Now, the London Metropolitan police has seized the object, and it has invited
Nigeria to make a claim, otherwise they will have to return it to the fellow
claiming ownership. We have now started work
on the return of the Ife Bronze head to Nigeria.,” the Minister said.
Meanwhile, the Federal Government has expressed delight at the decision of the
Cambridge University’s Jesus College to repatriate a Benin Bronze Cockerel,
known as ”okukor”, to Nigeria.
”Considering the hundreds of Benin Bronzes looted during that occupation, the
decision to return the cockerel is like a drop in the ocean, but it is an
important drop and we welcome it,” the Minister
said. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.