Our attention has been drawn to the publication in some
National dailies of Wednesday November 20th 2019 on the Abuja Electricity
Distribution Company (herein referred to as “AEDC”) which contained unverified
but purely misleading report that KANN Utility Company Ltd, the core investor
in Abuja Electricity Distribution Company, AEDC, has decided to sell its 60%
equity stake in the distribution company due to constant squabbles over
stakeholders’ debt. Nothing could be further from the truth; In the same news
reports, several issues concerning the ownership of shares in AEDC were simply
misrepresented for reasons that are anything but altruistic. First and foremost, we wish to respond to the cheap lies
being recycled in the media space that attempts were made several times before
now to represent that CEC Africa (CECA) of Zambian, not Xerxes paid $81m cash
(as equity) as well as raised another $123m loan security to acquire AEDC. The
truth of the matter is that it was the goodwill of the Chairman of AEDC, His
Royal Highness Amb. Alh. Shehu Malami, that actually paved way for CECA and
Xerxes through KANN as a special vehicle to even have access as well as win the
bid. Similarly, it is important that we prick the balloon of lies
peddled by those who are all out to mislead members of the public that it was
because CEC of Zambia owns 75% equity in AEDC that made it possible for UBA to
approve the loan facility for it. UBA disclaimed this and insisted it could not
impose conditions on a Company it owns no share in but only a financier. The
truth of the matter is that CECA owns only 30% in AEDC, but misled its parent
company in Zambia that it owns majority shares with the sole intent of sourcing
for capital from Zambia Stock Exchange. This is a clear indication of how
desperate they are for CECA to short-change other shareholders in AEDC. In the same vein, CECA misrepresented that it injected funds
into KANN as investment. The reality is that the fund was indeed a loan to KANN
which is to be repaid by the company. So, technically, there is no evidence to
date of equity investment made by CECA either at the CBN, UBA or any other
Regulatory Agency of Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to establish
that. Rather, they obtained a loan for KANN at exorbitant interest rate of
double digit over London Inter-bank interest rates (LIBOR). The so-called AEDC
stakeholders’ war is a premeditated agenda fuelled essentially by greed with a
view to forcefully taking over majority shares in the company which the
Nigerian shareholders have vehemently resisted. It is for this reason that CECA
unilaterally proposed to amend the Articles of Association of KANN targeted at
disenfranchising Xerxes, a development that underpinned Xerxes’ decision to
take the matter to Court to prevent an Extra-ordinary General Meeting from
taking place. The case is still in the Nigerian court of law. Another issue that has contributed significantly to the
crisis currently rocking AEDC is the refusal by the Board of Directors of AEDC
at its meeting held recently to renew the tenure of its Managing Director in
accordance with the provisions of NERC regulation on local content, which
states explicitly that an expatriate can only be appointed when there are no
Nigerians with the requisite experience and expertise to occupy such positions.
This they have equally made every effort to resist unsuccessfully. In another
move reminiscent of the rough tactics usually employed by footballers that if
you miss the ball, don’t miss the leg, since his bid to have his tenure renewed
was refused by the Board, the MD has allegedly refused to cooperate with
subordinate staff. The Board similarly resolved at that meeting that the
position of the MD and other positions previously occupied by foreigners be
made open for both Nigerians and non-Nigerians alike to vie in a spirit of
fair-play. Why the incumbent MD is not comfortable with this position of the
board is simply baffling, but we suspect there are issues he may want to
conceal. For a better appreciation of the facts of this case, let us
mount the horse and gallop down the memory lane of history. It would be
recalled that Amb. Alh. Shehu Malami in 2012 started the process of acquiring
shares in AEDC with the formation of Xerxes Ltd with other notable Nigerians
like Mr Felix Oheiweri, Alh. Maiyaki and Mr Jones etc. In 2013, Amb. Alh.
Shehu Malami and other Nigerians came together to form KANN and invited Copper
Belt of Zambia to buy 50% 0f KANN (an abbreviation of Kogi, Abuja, Niger and
Nasarawa), with which they bided for AEDC. In KANN, Nigerians own 50% shares,
while the Zambians own the remaining 50%. In the AEDC, Federal Government owns
40%, while KANN owns 60%. For the purpose of brevity, the 60% is jointly owned
by Xerxes Nigeria Ltd and CEC Africa on 50-50 basis (or in effect 30% &
30%). This is the true position with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) as at
today. Rather than signing reconciliation agreement reached when
the office of Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice
appointed the Bureau for public Enterprises to reconcile the shareholders
disputes between both parties, CECA failed to do that and instead wrote to the
BPE saying that it was more interested in registering the spurious arbitration
award obtained from London. So, this means that CECA was not interested in
being repaid but rather to illegally dispossess its local partners. It is also
worthy of note that XERXES Global Ltd, despite being a co-borrower of the facility
from UBA, has never been allowed access to KANN accounts and has been kept in
the dark on the dealings over KANN accounts. CECA of Zambia intentionally side lined Xerxes from the
financial transactions of the bank account of KANN by not submitting its nominees
as signatories to the account, which even at the Bank may appear to be a
violation of the requirements for opening and operating Company Accounts. In
the corporate world, this is tantamount to illegally elbowing a partner out of
business to thrive on illegality. At this juncture, the pertinent question to ask is: who is
fooling who? Amb. Alh. Shehu Malami is the former Nigeria’s Ambassador to
South Africa.