Respite may soon come the way of commuters at the Ijegun-Egba
axis of Lagos State following a move by the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) to partner with the Lagos State Government, depot owners and
petroleum tanker drivers to address infrastructural challenges that have
perennially hampered products evacuation from the area. This was
disclosed by the Group Managing Director of the corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari,
during separate visits to tank farms at the Ijegun-Egba corridor as well as the
Lagos State Government House in Ikeja, Lagos, Wednesday. He said as an enabler organisation to
the Nigerian economy which also guarantees national energy security, the NNPC
would continue to partner with stakeholders such as the Lagos Government, to
sustain the current seamless supply and distribution of products nationwide,
going into the Yuletide period. “As a responsible corporate citizen,
NNPC and its partners in the Downstream have made adequate preparations and our
plan is robust and we foresee a very hitch-free Christmas full of products,
well into the new year’’, Kyari assured. While
addressing tank farms operators at the Ijegun-Egba area, Kyari lauded their
initiative to pull resources together to fix the Ijegun Road leading to the
tank farms to ease movement of trucks in the area. Mallam Kyari
said although it was a palliative arrangement, the NNPC and its stakeholders
would put heads together to provide a permanent solution to the problems. Reacting to
the GMD’s visit, Governor Babajide Sanwolu expressed his support to NNPC and
its stakeholders’ initiative to tackle the infrastructure challenges not only
at the Ijegun-Egba, but the entire state, adding that his administration would
leave no stone unturned in tackling the challenges. “This is the
first time all the stakeholders are coming together to have a long-term view of
the situation. We will do everything that is required to ensure that everything
goes well on that entire corridor,” Governor Sanwolu assured. Also
speaking, Chairman, House Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), Hon. Abdullahi
Mahmud Gaya, expressed the National Assembly’s support to the initiative. At the palace
of the Oba of Lagos, His Royal Majesty Oba Rilwan Akiolu I, called on
International Oil Companies (IOCs) operating in the Country to do more
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in their areas of operations. Other stakeholders on the GMD’s
entourage were the National President of the National Union of Petroleum and
Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), Comrade Williams Akporeha and the Chairman,
Petroleum Tanker Drivers (PTD) Unit of NUPENG, Comrade Salimon Oladiti. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.