A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE Shun sentiments and broaden your diet
horizone! A
positive mindset is essential in all things… dieting inclusive! Wrong mindsets
make healthy eating habits very difficult to achieve. Some of these mindsets
can literally enslave one to acting contrary to their body’s needs. The mind is
a powerful tool, nothing you do is undecided by your mind, even when you think
you have  not given it a good conscious
thought therefore you did not actively participate, well, your subconscious
mind played a part In it, it acted on its formation…. When it comes to our health needs it is vital to apply our mind consciously and think through our dietary habits in order to benefit from the foods we consume. Our bodies have only one sentiment and that is” replenish me with nutrients”! The body’s functioning depends largely on nutrients, nutrients are its only fuel source, and when the body replenished adequately it sure does amazing things… Even science may never be able to fully reveal the human body’s wonders… But one thing we know for sure through numerous researches is that when the much needed essential building blocks found in a balanced diet are supplied the body, your body is charged with vitality to fight off diseases, foster good health and promote longevity and even heal itself! Even though nutrition forms the crux of human survival and healthy dieting is a big part of any successful lifestyle, yet a great many people pay little or no attention to this topic. As a matter of fact, it is a less important issue for a great many Nigerians especially in the face of economic challenges… Little do we realize that ignoring this topic may bring more hardship in the long run, for health is actually the real wealth and offers much more freedom than financial security will ever offer… Imagine that you have pursued material
wealth all your life and achieved it. While you were pursuing the material
comfort you greatly neglected your nutrition, day after day you fed on junk
foods and did see anything wrong with your dietary habits. And just as you are
about to retire and enjoy your achievements suddenly you begin to develop
health issues. Whenever healthy dietary principles are
ignored chances are that a form of deficiency would have begun to slowly build
and eventually mutated into a full on health challenge that would require
expensive treatment. While some of the medication we use to treat disease are
said to possibly cause other health problems. For example, diabetic medication
may increases risk for high blood pressure, many people with diabetes need to take
medication to lower their blood pressure while high blood pressure is
attributed to other risk factors such as kidney failure, strokes, and others,
which may also still require additional medication to treat. In the end, all of these would have become
so expensive and exhausting mentally and financially. But by simply eating a
healthy diet you would have avoided many problems. Always keep it at the back
of your mind a stitch in time saves nine! From interacting with many people in the
course of  my nutrition training  and 
sharing meals with guest on my nutrition show(Diet Africa) I have come
to realized  that  poor dietary habits in the country is indeed
a mindset issue. This attitude stems from many variables such as outlook, self
esteem, indifference, obliviousness and primitive sentiments.  I will try to elaborate on the above stated
as best as I can. What is hindering you from proper dieting? Could it be any of these? Outlook: An outlook is a person’s way of
understanding and thinking about something. When you view food as a means to
simply appease hunger rather than to foster growth, reproduction, and repair,
maintain health, protect against disease and all the beneficial bodily processes,
you tend to eat the wrong foods. Recent research indicates that 99% of the
foods we pick on super market shelves are heavily parked with preservatives;
yet, we buy them anyway because the goal is often to fill up the stomach and
not replenish the cells where it really matters. In addition, our culinary
habit tells the story much clearer: It usually begins with bleaching oils way
past their smoking points (the point where heat burns out the nutrients in
oil), large amounts of artificial seasonings are featured as major condiments,
and then food is over cooked destroying the possibility of nutrients remaining
in the food. Only with the reshaping f the mindset towards foods that a change
can occur or these rend will be corrected. Esteem Issues: when you have a certain opinion of yourself and project to things to serve your purpose. For example some people are simply not completely comfortable in their skin so they create perceptions to portray their desired effect, starting from their diet. Because the seek to be seen as western they choose junking since junking is more representing of western dietary standards. For this reason a great many folks, especially young stars consume tones of processed flour which is the base of many junk foods. This flour is refined and void of nutrients, and more so the flour is bleached with a chemical called chlorine gas. Chlorine gas is said to be dangerous and is an irritant that can be lethal. It is also very highly glycemic and bad for blood sugar. Other commonly used ingredients in junk food are Processed Meat Like hot dogs, sausages, bacon, etc. These foods have excessive salts (chlorine based salt which is said to induce high blood pressure) and chemicals. Some studies show that people who regularly eat processed meats increased their chance of early death by as much as 43 percent. Another practice in fast food joints is the
heating of foods in microwave with plastic containers; re-heating prepared
foods further destroys nutrients, but using plastic containers is much worse!
The plastic chemicals would leach its harmful residue in to the food. The junk
foods and the other processes used significantly contribute to the rise of
health conditions such as obesity, diabetes heart related ailments, allergens
and many forms of cancers, which greatly impact quality of life and
productivity. Indifference:  Dieting is often treated passively;
collectively the purpose of food has been turned to a hunger appeasing fiesta
where anything goes…. This routine is very well represented in a typical
Nigerian meal which  comprises of
mostly  carbohydrate, generous amount of
animal protein, and an obvious splurge of oil (rich or poor do same, the
difference is usually in quantity or quality of oil). The lingering oils are
often perceived as an indication of sumptuousness of the soup. It is worthy to
note that oils are the major causes of heart problems. The same way oils can
clog in the kitchen sink is the same way oils clog arteries. Consequently, the
arteries are overwhelmed and eventually go into a stroke. As a result about
160,000 Nigerians suffer from strokes and other heart related ailments
annually, and children are not excluded. We need to pay more attention to our
diet choices to improve and maintain health and ultimately preserve life Obliviousness: The attitude of a people
determines their belief, dictates their actions, and in the end they would reap
according to the deserving yield as a result of the active believing…. Majority
of Nigerians respond to what they see which makes it difficult to convince an
average Nigerian of the essence of proper dietary habits since the initial  benefits are 
felt  deep in our cells. Often times when the subject matter is
perceived irrelevant to their financial pursuit or has no monetary value attached
to it, they often feel it is a waste of their time. Rather than listen and
analyze the facts and follow reason, they would rather expend huge energies on
excuses… They even go as far as comparing how the same foods sufficed in our
forefathers’ days, and how they lived ripe to an old age, therefore, they do
not see the fuss about doing things differently. Little do they know that times have changed
and so are the farming process and the quality of the soil, which reduces the
nutrients content in the foods we consume today. There is no rocket science to
this, if we continue on this self-destruct part, our nation will be ravaged by
disease even beyond malnutrition. Sickly bodies are uninspired, weak and unable
to work hard, much less take on actualizing lofty heights. As a people, we need
to relearn better dietary practices that will foster health and even reset our
lives clock towards longevity! Primitive sentiments: In spite of the
assortments that abound in the different cultures in Nigeria, our diet still
remains rigid, limited and insufficient to nourish our bodies to say the least.
The culprit is no other than the divisions we often practice along tribal and
religious lines, thus separating foods along same lines. In light of what our bodies require to
foster growth, repair tissues and function at its best, the current diet we
consume in Nigeria is too rigid and limited to support the body’s initial
operative plan. The key to achieve better adequate nutrition plan is to broaden
our diet horizons, to inculcate the assortment we have right here in the
country in our regular diet regime, ignoring the cultural, tribal boundaries
and religious sentiments. For if we continue harboring primitive sentiments we
will continue to under-nourish our bodies. I have heard people say things like no I
can’t eat that o that is Igbo food, that is Hausa food, or that is Yoruba and
so on…We need to change these stereotypes and begin to see food as a necessary
component of human existence rather than a means to appease hunger or channels
of projecting insecurities, or avenues to express dogma’s or express love of
sect. Because none of these is helpful for the body, continuing to feed on only
what is planted in our cultural sects is simply not enough to accomplish the body’s’
needs The great news! Mindsets can be relearned if we choose to.
A shift in our mindset can assist greatly in creating a healthier, prosperous
future for our nation. After all, when foods are prepared right, all healthy
foods are palate friendly, and can be enjoyed by all no matter where it
originates from. With the right mindset and proper dietary attitude we could
very well achieve the body’s nutrition need with our domestic assortments, and
easily improve our health status, life expectancy and reverse our malnutrition
ratings. According to research Nigeria is the most malnourished country on the
Africa continent. The idea is to help you refocus your
priority and benefit from a healthy mindset. Always keep this in mind, your
body is the only tool you will ever own so hone it wisely to serve you
optimally. We all have a responsibility to make wise
and informed choices each day about our health. These tips are your ally to a
healthy lifestyle so generously incorporate them in your daily routine! For questions on culinary/ grocery tips,
diet-plans please drop me a message. Email: sussannajacob@gmail.com, newleeznlife@yahoo.ca Facebook: sussanna Ngodoo .E. Jacob Instergram: ngodoo.s.jacob Whatsapp: 07035990863 Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.