The Senate and House of
Representatives have expressed their dissatisfaction with the continued
intransigence of the Niger Delta Affairs Minister Godswill Akpabio and the
interim management committee he appointed for the Niger Delta Development
Commission (NDDC) in disregard of the Board duly screened and approved by the
Senate. While the Senate President Dr Ahmed
Lawan has made the position of the senators known at the screening and approval
of the members of the board on where he directed that the new board resume
‘immediately’. Already, the Federal House of
Representatives has asked the minister to withdraw the interim management
committee without delay or face zero-budgetary allocation. At the plenary on Wednesday November
13, 2019, the House of Representatives asked the Minister of Niger Delta
Affairs to immediately inaugurate the board or face opposition. It resolved to
discontinue the consideration of the 2020 budget process of the Niger Delta
Ministry,  until the minister complies  with the directive, also
resolved to urge the Senate to suspend work on the 2020 budget of Niger Delta
Affairs ministry until Akpabio cancels the appointment of the NDDC interim
management committee. The House’s decision followed the
adoption of a motion sponsored by Ossai Nicholas Ossai, under matters of urgent
public importance,  on ” urgent need to stop the illegality in the NDDC,”
at Wednesday’s plenary. Ossai, who led the debate, 
told members of the House that on October 29, President Buhari through the
Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), 
announced the appointment of 15 new members of the NDDC board, and subsequently
sent their names to the Senate for confirmation, days after the President
ordered the forensic audit of the Commission since its founding in 2001. The lawmaker noted that on the same
day, October 29, as the President’s list of board nominees were read in the
Senate, Akpabio announced the interim committee to run for six months. Since the minister’s action, Niger
Delta stakeholders have expressed their dissatisfaction with the action and
have gone as far as calling for the sack of the minister. The media has been
vociferous in opposition to the minister’s action, calling for the inauguration
of the new board, which is led by Chairman Pius Odubu and Managing Director
Bernard Okumagba. The Nation newspaper called the minister’s action  an
illegality. In the words of the paper, “an illegality is brewing in the
Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), and at the centre of it is the
minister who has been charged to superintend it. After setting up an interim
management to oversee the commission without the backing of any law, the Niger
Delta minister, Godswill Akpabio, has not relented in spite of the senate
confirmation of the new board.” It noted that, “It is obvious that
the minister is hijacking the law. This is worsened by the high-handed way he
has started as the minister of the region. He has not answered critical
questions concerning actions he has undertaken since he started his
stewardship. First, the scandal of the contract award of N1.9 billion for water
hyacinth in the region remains unanswered.”