The All Progressives Congress,APC
has disowned  those still campaigning for
a third term for President Muhammadu Buhari despite his public declaration
against the plot. A statement from  the
party’ headquarters in Abuja  described
campaigners for Buhari’s third term,  as “busybodies.” National Publicity Secretary  ,APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, “the Party is by this statement sending a strong signal to such other busybodies like Charles Enya who may be contemplating testing the resolve of our government on our mission to work for the best for our country to be ready to face the law. He said “We would follow this new
enemy of our country, who is most likely being sponsored by the desperate and
misguided opposition, every step of the way, using all legal means to thwart
his devilish efforts to create chaos in our country. “As a party, we would not take
kindly to anyone or group causing unnecessary distraction for this
administration through anti-democratic actions. As a country, we are several
years behind where we ought to be. The President Buhari-led administration is
focused on the onerous responsibility of delivering good governance. We are
focused on revamping our moribund infrastructure, growing the economy, fighting
corruption, creating the right environment for our teeming youths to deploy
their creative energies, and providing adequate security for all of our people. “We have tried to find out the
status of this character claiming to be a member of our party. If he turns out
to be our member, we would ensure the party organ that has the responsibility
to act on this matter promptly commence the process of expelling him. We are a
progressive party and we do not have space for anti-democratic forces and
charlatans. //// Before coming to the conclusion
above,  the APC spokesman said the
party  has “read in the media about a
purported legal action taken by a self-proclaimed member of the Party, Charles
Enya, seeking an amendment of the constitution to allow President Muhammadu
Buhari run for a third term in office. “The Party had initially chosen to
ignore him. However, it has become important to send a clear message to him and
such other agents provocateurs. The spokesman recalled that “At the
last National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the Party, President Buhari
didn’t mince words and he is not the type that talks tongue-in-cheek. He
pointedly said he would abide by the constitution and uphold the oath of office
he took, swearing by the holy book he believes in. This he said was besides his
advanced age which made such an idea beyond his contemplation. “The NEC meeting highlights released
to the media by the party equally quoted the President admonishing APC members,
leaders and elected officials to reposition themselves in their respective
constituencies so as to sustain the administration’s landmark legacies beyond
2023 when the President’s constitutionally permitted terms end. “The president said history would
not be fair to members if the APC collapses after his second term. What better
proof is required of the President’s resolve to abide by the constitution on
term limit?” Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.