The fourth witness of the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Abeimense Ihcyeon, has told
Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of a Federal High Court, Abuja that Shamsudeen Bala
Mohammed, son of a former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Bala
Mohammed, currently the governor of Bauchi State, concealed several assets in
money and properties, which were traced to him in course of investigations. At the resumed sitting today, November 28, 2019
counsel for the EFCC, Wahab Shittu, tendered the statement of the witness
against Shamsudeen as part of his trial for a 15-count charge bordering on
money laundering and false declaration of assets. The witness, an officer of the EFCC and an
investigating officer in the matter, had in a statement dated May 17, 2017,
revealed that Shamsudeen under interrogation, concealed some of his assets, and
failed to fully disclose them in the asset declaration form given to him to
fill. The statement, which was identified by the
witness, was thereafter admitted in evidence against Shamsudeen by the court as
Exhibit SB24. Under cross-examination by Chris Uche, SAN, the
witness further revealed how intelligence report alleged that Shamsudeen was
involved in shady activities, investigation of which necessitated the need for
him to declare his assets in the asset declaration form. She said: “My lord, sometime in 2015, the EFCC
received intelligence report on the defendant, the report led to investigations
in which we went to the address of the defendant to carry out a search. “During the search, various sophisticated
electronic gadgets including laptops, phones, cash of Fifty thousand dollars
($50,000), Five hundred and eighty five thousand Naira
(N585,000.00)  was discovered in his residence. “My team leader, Mr Dauda who had earlier
testified in court, had requested that the defendant complete an EFCC Asset
Declaration Form A in which the defendant failed to disclose choice plots of
land, cash domiciled in Standard Chartered Bank in various currencies including
Dollars, Pounds and Euro within and out of Nigeria. “We wrote to the banks requesting the account
opening packages, mandate and linked four other companies – Bird Trust Argo
Limited, Intertrans Global Logistics Limited, Diakin Telecommunications Limited
and Bal-Vac Mining Nigeria Limited to the defendant.” Justice Dimgba adjourned to January
29 and 30, 2020. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.