After years of division, members of
the Central Executive of the All Nigeria Community (ANC) in Ghana were
inaugurated on 23rd November, 2019, in Accra. The inauguration, which was the
final product of efforts by the Nigerian High Commission in bringing all
Nigerians in Ghana under one unified umbrella, was a huge success with
emotional accolades from the ANC members. While taking their oath of office,
the executive members expressed appreciation to the High Commission with special
pledge to do their utmost best both individually and collectively, to ensure
the efforts expended on the union will not be in vain. In her message of goodwill to the
ANC, the Chairman of the Nigeria Diaspora Commission, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa,
who was represented at the event, enjoined the ANC to cooperate amongst
themselves for the collective benefit of all Nigerians in Ghana. The High Commissioner, Amb. Olufemi
Michael Abikoye, in his remarks reminded both the executive committee and the larger
community of the evil in disunity and lack of cooperation in any family, such
as the ANC. He admonished them further to put
all their differences behind them and open a new chapter in the annals of the
community, even for generations yet unborn. Amb Abikoye reminded them of the
age-long saying of “united we stand, divided we fall”, especially in Ghana’s
environment that has been witnessing some form of resentment against members of
the community. In his address, the newly
inaugurated Chairman, Hon. Salihu Alhaiji Mohammed, thanked the High Commission
for the tenacity in bringing about the remarkable day for the Nigerian
community in Ghana. He then solicited for the
cooperation, patience and contributions of all and sundry to make the objectives
of their new chapter a reality. When the High Commissioner resumed
office in Ghana in 2017, the ANC at the time had been crisis and had no
executive team to drive its affairs, to the collective disadvantage of the
community. But after painstaking negotiation
and consultation processes, the High Commission was able to conduct successful
elections that brought together individuals drawn from all six (6)
geo-political zones of the country to ensure a balanced representation in the
leadership. Furthermore, to ensure fairness in
the distribution of leadership positions, the new president was elected from
the Arewa community, considering that the previous president was from the
South-South community, while the three (3) Vice presidents were elected from
the Igbo, Yoruba and South-South communities. They are to serve for a two-year
period after which new elections will be conducted and the next executives will
be elected on regional rotations. Find below the newly inaugurated
2019 ANC Executives: • President – Hon. Salihu Alhaiji
MOHAMMED (Arewa Community) • 1st Vice President – Hon. Loius
Uchegbu OKORIE (Igbo Community) • 2nd Vice President – Chf. Dr. Bayo
Albert ASAOLU (Yoruba Community) • 3rd Vice President – Hon. Oviedafe
Augustine ONOJETAH (SouthSouth Community) • General Secretary – Hon. Isaac
Osahon EKHATOR (South-South Community) • Assistant General Secretary – Mr.
Chigozie Carlos DONATUS (Igbo Community) • Financial Secretary – Alh. Umar
Sarki SULLEY (Arewa Community) • Assistant Welfare Officer – Pst.
Maxwell Bolarinwa OWOLABI (Yoruba Community) • Assistant Financial Secretary –
Chf. Emmanuel NWANELI (Igbo Community) • Treasurer – Mr. Paul Matthew DIM
(Igbo Community) • Public Relations Officer – Chf.
Akintola Bolanle (Yoruba Community) • Welfare – Hon. Peter NWOKOLO
(South-South Community) • Provost – Mr. Abdul Aziz MUSAH
(Arewa Community) • Executive Official (President
Women ANC) – Hon. Mrs. Beauty Amaebinye ANNAN (South-South Community) • Executive Official (Women ANC
Secretary) – Hon. Ms. Omotosho OLAYINKA (Yoruba Community) • Executive Official (Women ANC
Welfare Officer) – Hajiya Halimatu MAIKANKAN (Arewa Community). Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.