Igbos are one of the largest ethnic groups in
Nigeria. Knowing their exact number is a herculean task. Nevertheless, they are
in millions. South Eastern Nigeria is widely considered their ancestral home.
However, they are present in large numbers in almost all the states of South-South
and some parts of central Nigeria. Incidentally, Igbos are the only ethnic
group that can be found not only in all nooks and crannies of Nigeria but  in other countries as well. Their ancestral home was part of the southern
enclaves that the representative of the British imperialists amalgamated with
northern protectorate in 1914 and named Nigeria. Prior to the lowering of the
Union Jack in October 1960, their land was called Eastern Nigeria with its
headquarters in Enugu. The administrative headquarters decapitated when the
junta of Gen. Yakubu Jack Gowon balkanized the three regions to twelve states
in 1967. Before Independence in 1960 and in the First
Republic (1960-1966), NCNC of Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe (Zik of Africa) was the
dominant political party in South East, thereby making it the ruling party in
the region. In the Second Republic (1979-1983), NPP an offshoot of Zik’s NCNC
captured states of the former Eastern region. It was the 1983 unprecedented
electoral tsunami that gave the then ruling party (NPN) some ventilating space
in south east. In the First and Second Republics (1960-1966 and
1979-1983), political juggernauts of South East forged political alliances with
dominant northern Nigeria political parties (NPC and NPN). The fraternity led
to ceding the position of the Ceremonial President to Dr. Zik in the First
Republic and some political offices in the Second Republic. Incidentally or accidentally no Igbo man or
woman has been democratically elected as president since the sacking of our
colonial masters in 1960. The January 1966 military misadventure and accident
of history gave one of them, Gen. John Thomas Ironsi a six months stint. The
period was hyperactively characterised with political turbulence that peaked
with his ouster and mysterious disappearance in July of 1966. Events that
engineered his emergence and dethroning culminated with a three years civil war
(1967-1970). The Biafran war is about the only war that no narration of its
major actor corroborated that of each other. Before this Republic that took-off in 1999, the
two Southern protectorates that were forced into an unsolicited political
matrimony in 1914 with the north have been crying of political marginalisation
and domination by the north. And struggled at different times to break what
they perceived as internal political subjugation by the north. A confluence of
threatening variables made the north to surrender power to the south (South
West) in 1999. Shifting power to a Yoruba man of South West
Chief Olusegun Mathew Obasanjo was generally suspected to be an appeasement for
the annulment of JUNE 12 presidential election by the junta of Gen. Ibrahim
Badamasi Babangida (IBB). Chief Dr. Obasanjo spent eight straight years on the
saddle (1999-2007). After the expiration of his constitutionally permissible
terms limit, power shifted to the north (2007-2010),went back to south-south
(2010-2015), and back to the north since 2015 to date. Under the country’s unofficial power sharing
arrangement that commenced in this Republic in 1999, power is expected to cross
river Niger (southward) at the expiration of president Mohammadu or Mohamed
Buhari’s tenure in 2023. On the strength of that unwritten order, the south
easterners are making a case for an Igbo president in 2023. Their demand for
the numero un (No1) political seat in the country is morally and politically
germane and quite timely. The principle of appeasement that masterminded
surrendering of power to Yorubas in 1999 should be extended to the Igbos. For
south west, it was JUNE 12 annulment that instigated the ceding of power to
south west. That of Igbos should premise on protracted and conscious policies
of exclusion from levers of power because of the civil war of 1967-1970. And
other reasons pundits are struggling to comprehend. Igbos are about the only ethnic group genuinely,
passionately and patriotically constructing social and economic bridges in
Nigeria. They are all over the country providing services and producing goods
that are powering our economy in a big way. Their contribution to growth and
development is arguably unmatchable with any ethnic group in Nigeria. Cities like Aba,Umuahia and Onisha are competing
in production of goods with cities in China, India, South Korea, Vietnam and
Taiwan. In some cases, items manufactured in Igbo land are of higher quality
than the ones produced in Asian countries. Their capacity to provide local
solutions to some technologically advanced inventions is mesmerizing and beyond
our imagination. Igbos have a thick diaspora population that its
annual remittances to their home communities is higher than any ethnic group in
the country. One can state without fear of contradiction that finances coming
from them is often bigger than grants from foreign governments and international
financial lending bodies. Like the home based Igbos, their diaspora brothers
and sisters have businesses and investments doing quite well. They are key
players in various professional endeavours in some of the world’s best
institutions. They are breaking world’s records and winning laurels in all
fields of life. There is no law barring hunters of power from
the north or south west from throwing their hats into the 2023 presidential
ring. However, I admonish them to situate their legally premised ambitions on
salient messages embedded in the FOUR WAY TEST of rotary international: Is it the truth? Is it fair to all concerned? Will it build goodwill and better friendships? Will it be beneficial to all concerned? History is littered with instances that
legitimate rights bowed to political expediency. The 1999 unanimous decision to
shift power to South West is an example of how legal rights were suppressed by
political factors. Had the north damned the hue and cry of power shift in 1999
and put forward a consensus candidate, the South west wouldn’t have gotten the
seat. This is not because the north have any special skill of the power game.
It is because of its structural advantages and the so-called numerical
strength. The political class of the north used the military and widened the
gap of political structures between the north and the south. For example, the
north has three geo political zones and the two former regions of the south
that existed before the introduction of the states in 1967 have three. Worse,
there is a region in the south that has the least collection states in Nigeria.
This structural imbalances has made it practically impossible to win a
presidential election without the backing of the north. In
nations building, compromise has always been essential and desirable ingredient
in crucial moments. In my opinion, 2023 is one of such critical moments that we
must collectively subject our individual or regional sentiments to a broader
national interest. That interest is,making the Igbos feel; they too, are
co-partners in the project Nigeria. Conceding the presidency to them will sink
deeper pillars of unity, peace and progress in the land. It will also squash
the notion that Igbos are being punished because of the civil war they officially
declared and suffered irreparable setback. If the north deploy its numerical strength and
other structural advantages and hang on to power beyond 29th May 2023, that
will be tantamount to political gluttonism and insensitivity. Paradventure
power moves to South West (once more), the tale of a north/ south-west gang-up
against the Igbos will have millions of believers. And any of these options
will infest the political body and soul of the nation with lethal diseases. Nigeria can only achieve
laudable dreams of its founding fathers, if every part feels it has equal
stakes in the project. Accepting this incontrovertible reality is the safest
and surest way to stability, unity, progress, development, and corporate
existence of the nation. John Danfulani Twitter: @john_danfulani Email:johndanfulani@gmail.com 07082622012 Ungwan Romi Kaduna Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.