Events
over the past few weeks show public outcry and dissatisfaction on some debated proposed
bills which continue to threaten harmonious coexistence of Nigerians. One of
such is the proposed BILL ON HATE SPEECH, sponsored by the Deputy Chief Whip of
the Senate, Sen. Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi. It is on this premise that I am
constrained to state my candid opinion on the ongoing discourse. It
is no longer news that the BILL has already passed through 1st and 2nd Readings
in the Senate. That notwithstanding, I call on the Executive and Legislative
Arms of government to respect the freedom of expression and the Press contained
in section 39, paragraphs 1-3 of the 1999 constitution (as amended 2011) – a
document which they swore on oath to protect and defend. The
Press, otherwise known as the Fourth Estate of the Realm, should be allowed to
operate based on the provisions of the law. The media protect and serve as
check on the other Arms of Government. The Fourth Estate of the Realm
especially, serves as the real guardian of the people. Only through their
reportage are the citizens informed of government policies, programmes and
actions. The proposed bill is an infringement on the fundamental rights of
citizens and the Press. It is inimical to democratic tenets and the rule of
law. It
saddens me to read and hear comment and statement such as “there is no going
back on the bill”. It is necessary to remind people in position of authority
over the rest of us, that they are expected to listen to concerns of people
they lead and to act in the overall good and interest of the public. Hence, the
proposed bill is not sacrosanct to the extent that it cannot be stepped down or
withdrawn altogether. I
therefore call on President Muhammadu Buhari, the President of the Senate and the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan and Femi
Gbajabiamila, respectively, to reflect on this bill in its entirety and to
ensure its withdrawal forthwith as it is an ill-will that blows no good. Given
the nature of our society, there is a clear and present danger should this bill
be passed into law, Nigeria
is a pluralistic and democratic society. Consequently, divergent views,
opinions and believes should never be viewed as hostility. Not to say much, may
I conclude with the words of Martin Luther King Jnr. who said “our lives begin
to end the day we become silent about things that matter.” It matters that
citizens, especially the media, are allowed to state their views on policies, programs,
actions and inactions of those in position of responsibility. It is an act of
living! Samu’ila Danko
Makama CON Retired Federal
Permanent Secretary & former Chairman, National Population
Commission. Nyengu/Sarkin
Yamma Quarters, Gindiri, Plateau State. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.