Senate President, Dr Ahmad Lawan, has insisted that the Senate will only consider the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) budget if it is defended by the board it screened and confirmed early November. Dr Lawan who was speaking at plenary on Thursday morning, said he hopes the executive would do the needful and inaugurate the board to have them defend the commission’s budget. The Senate President’s comments were
made after the Leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, had read the letter from the
executive branch requesting the Senate to consider the 2019 and 2020 Budget
Estimates of the NDDC. While directing the request to the
Committee on Niger Delta Affairs to attend to, Senator Lawan said, “I want
to reiterate for emphasis that you deal with the Governing Board that this
Senate approved.” He directed the Peter Nwaoboshi – led Committee on NDDC to
report back in two weeks. The Senate President’s emphasis, two
days after the red chamber restated its decision that the board be inaugurated,
is clear indication that the upper house will not permit the interim management
committee appointed by the Niger Delta minister Godswill Akpabio continue to
direct the affairs of the commission when the duly confirmed board is on
ground. The President of the Senate had said
on Tuesday after he read President Buhari’s communication, dated November 21,
on the NDDC budget that only the confirmed board members will be allowed to
defend the budget, adding that, “I believe that the executive arm of
government will attend to that quickly so that we have the right people to come
and defend the Appropriation request of Mr. President.” While confirming 15 of the NDDC
board members on November 5, the Senate had frowned at the appointment of a
3-member interim management committee by the minister, declaring it as illegal
and asking the new board to takeover the management since all due process has
been followed in appointing them. The board is headed by Dr. Pius Odubu as
chairman and Olorogun Bernard Okumagba as managing director. Other confirmed members of the board
are: Nwogu Nwogu (Abia), Victor Antai (Akwa Ibom),Theodore Allison (Bayelsa),
Maurice Effiwatt (Cross River), Jones Erue (Delta), Chief Victor Ekhator (Edo),
Hon. Uchegbu Chidiebere Kyrian (Imo),Olugbenga Elema (Ondo), Aisha Murtala
Muhammed (Kano, representing the Northwest), Ardo Zubairu (Adamawa,
representing the Northeast) and Amb. Abdullahi Bage (Nasarawa, representing the
North Central). The nominee from Rivers State, Dr.
Joy Yimebe Nunieh was not  confirmed by the Senate as she did not appear
for screening. Incidentally, the minister had appointed her acting managing
director for the interim management committee. You said it very well..
canadian pharmacies Valuable facts. Thanks.
buy cialis usa http://www.advairgeneric.us.com Excellent information. Appreciate it!
canada online pharmacies Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest. Terrific tips. With thanks!
canada online pharmacies Regards! Plenty of postings! viagra without a doctor prescription Reliable data. With thanks.
canadian pharmacies Many thanks. Good stuff!
canadian pharmacy