The National President of Ijaw Youth
Council (IYC), Barrister Eric Omare has urged the National Assembly to
disregard any budget approval request from NDDC submitted by the Interim
Management Committee inaugurated by Minister of Niger Delta, Chief Godswill
Akpabio, because under Section 18 of the NDDC Act of 2000 only the substantive
Board can submit a budget. Act Number 6 of 2000 which set up
the NDDC states that, “the Board shall not later than 30th September in each
year, submit to the National Assembly, through the President,
Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces an estimate of the expenditure and
income of the Commission during the next succeeding year for approval.” Barrister Omare who said this in a
nationally broadcast interview on Arise TV, maintained that the problem with
NDDC since its inception is with adherence to the law establishing NDDC. According to him, “instead of
strictly complying with the law establishing NDDC, emphasis is placed on
political patronage, in other words, the NDDC is being used as a platform to
patronize the party in power instead of using it as a platform to develop the
Niger Delta region.” The IYC President regretted that
with the Senate confirmation of a substantive Board for NDDC stakeholders
thought that it will bring a level of sanity and stability to the Commission
but unfortunately and to their surprise, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs,
Chief Godswill Akpabio set up an Interim Management Committee that is not
contemplated by the NDDC establishment Act because under the Act there is no
room for an interim management committee in the first place. He further explained that the only
caveat for an interim management has to be borne out of necessity, noting that
it does not exist in the present circumstance because President Buhari has
already exercised his powers under Section 2 of the NDDC Act to nominate
members of the substantive board to the national assembly and the Senate has
confirmed members of the substantive board. Barrister Omare stated that what
ought to happen is for the substantive board to take over the leadership of the
commission immediately but regretted that two weeks after the clearance “we
still have a contraption called an interim management committee presiding over
the NDDC in flagrant violation of the law establishing the NDDC.” Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.