A
special prayer session was convened for the nation on Monday 11th November 2019
at the Banquet Hall, State House, Abuja. According to a  press release saigned by Aliyu Abdullahi ,Special Assistant to the President (Media
& Publicity) (Office of
the First Lady),  the event, which reviewed the importance
of supplication for the nation’s guidance and development, witnessed the
presence of Islamic Scholars from across the nation. First
Lady of Nigeria, Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari in her address harped on the
importance of worship, which she said “is the highway through which our
requests and innermost desires are achieved”. She reminded participants that
“Islam has outlined responsibilities to our creator, our societies, our close
and extended families and our neighbours and we must carry out these
responsibilities to the best of our abilities.” Speaking
on the responsibilities of heads of households, she charged men to adhere to
the teachings of Prophet Muhammad and be responsible to their families through
love, care and provision. She said this will spread horizontally across the
society and vertically across generations, insisting that this can address the
multiple societal ills that are bedeviling the nation; such includes rampant
drug abuse particularly amongst women and youth, corruption in high and small
places both in public and private sectors, and violent crimes. She also called
for the Muslim Ummah to promote the spirit of tolerance, love, harmony, and
peaceful coexistence among the people of different faiths in the nation. Chairman
of the occasion and Secretary General of Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic
Affairs Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, said Nigeria has been caught at crossroads. He
said the tradition of corruption has nearly brought the nation to its knees,
but for the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari. He called on Nigerians
to be better people in all spheres of life if the country was to attain its
expected greatness. Scholars
delivered speeches on issues of faith & practice, corruption, drug abuse,
security, entrepreneurship and the emerging trend of child abduction. Highlight
of the occasion was a session of special prayers for the nation and its leaders
conducted by a team of renowned Islamic Scholars present at the event. The
event was attended by the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari
(who was seen as Newsdiaryonline
observes  in a rare photo sitting close
to the First Lady), Hon. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola,
Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, Former Governor of Nasarawa
state, Sen. Tanko Almakura, other distinguished Senators of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, Wives of Governors & former Governors and other
dignitaries. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.