By Danlami Nmodu The Security Watch Africa Initiatives Annual Conference has advocated that
African Countries should make  what it called
“concerted
efforts to actualise a borderless United States of Africa by 2063” This recommendation was
one of the highlights of  the communiqué  at the end of 16th edition of Security Watch Africa Initiatives Annual
Conference held at 
Swissotel, Al-Ghurair and Radison Blu Hotel Dubai, United Arab Emirates from
6-7th November 2019. The communiqué was signed
by Brigadier General Joseph Nunoo-Mensah (rtd) Chairman, Board of Trustees,
Security Watch Africa Initiatives; Mr. Patrick Agbambu,President/CEO,Security
Watch Africa Initiatives and Brigadier General SK Usman (rtd), mni, Conference
Rapporteur,Security Watch Africa Initiatives. The conference equally noted that  “There
is urgent need for more collaboration and information sharing in border
security management. Also it was suggested that
“African countries should emphasise on the importance of non-kinetic efforts in
counter terrorism and counter-insurgency operations. In particular, the initiative
 harped on the “Need to address the root
causes of insecurity on the African continent such as religious extremism and
intolerance, bad governance, illiteracy, unemployment and poverty. The conference further said
“African states should curb unilateral “intervention packages” by other
countries, where not sanctioned by the United Nations. Read the full text of the
communiqué below: COMMUNIQUE ON THE 16TH EDITION OF SECURITY
WATCH AFRICA INITIATIVES ANNUAL CONFERENCE HELD AT 
SWISSOTEL, AL-GHURAIR AND RADISON BLU HOTEL DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES FROM
6-7TH NOVEMBER 2019 The 16th Security Watch Africa Initiatives
Annual Conference and conferment of Awards to deserving individuals,
organisations and institutions with the theme, “Global Security
Outlook: Challenges, Impediments and Prospects for a Secured Africa”, was held from 6th– 7th November
2019 at Swissotel, Al-Ghurair Centre and Radisson Blu Hotel, Deira Creek,
Dubai, United Arab Emirates, respectively. During the conference, there were opening remarks,
keynote addresses and presentation of 5 papers that dwelled on African safety
and security issues. The conference had two sessions which were chaired respectively,
by Brigadier General Joseph Nunoo-Mensah (rtd), Chairman, Board of Trustees of
Security Watch Africa Initiatives and Brigadier General Hussain Ahmed, Acting
Provost Marshal, Nigerian Army. Brigadier General Sani Kukasheka Usman (rtd),
served as rapporteur. The lead paper titled “Historic Perspective to Leadership and Security in
Africa” was presented by Professor Wilhelmus Josephus Breytenbach, Emeritus
Professor of Political Science, Stellenbosch University, South Africa, while
the second paper, “Combating Terrorism and Insurgency Through Non-Kinetic
Approach, was delivered by Major General Usman Shehu Mohammed, Chief of
Civil-Military Affairs of the Nigerian Army. The third paper, “Combating
Security at Sea: The African Experience” was presented by Professor Henri
Fouche, an Associate Professor at Stellenbosch University, South Africa and
Chair of the Security Watch Africa Initiatives, while the fourth paper, titled,
“The Effects of Irregular Migrants on National Security: The Gambian
Experience” was delivered by Mr. Buba Sagnia, a former Director General,
Gambian Immigration Services and member of Security Watch Africa Initiatives’
Board of Trustees. The fifth paper, “Combating Transnational Crimes Through
Counter Extremism Approach”, was delivered by Doctor Barend Prinsloo, a Senior
Researcher, Security and Management Studies, North-West University, South
Africa. The Awards featured presentation of lectures and presentation of awards to 68
individuals, organisations and institutions from the academia, clergy, media,
military, police and security agencies from across the African continent for
various exceptional and exemplary performances in their various fields of
endeavour. 

The Awards Lecture was presented by one of the recipients of the awards, His
Excellency, Chief Willie M. Obiano, the Executive Governor of Anambra State, Nigeria, represented by
Air Vice Marshall Ben Chiobi (rtd), his Special
Adviser onCreativeSecurity. Similarly, the Chief of Army
Staff, Nigerian Army, Lieutenant General TY Buratai, represented by Lieutenant
General LO Adeosun, Chief of Policy and Plans of the Nigerian Army, Professor
Samuel Tshehla, Executive Dean, Faculty of Military Sciences, Stellenbosch University
and a traditional ruler, His Royal Highness, Appolus Chu, Egbere Emere1 of
Okori Eleme, Rivers State also made presentations at the awards night. At the end of the two-day
event, the conference noted that: BRIGADIER GENERAL
JOSEPH NUNOO-MENSAH (rtd) Chairman, Board of Trustees Security Watch Africa Initiatives MR. PATRICK AGBAMBU President/CEO     Security Watch Africa Initiatives BRIGADIER GENERAL SK USMAN (rtd), mni Conference Rapporteur Dated:  Friday 8th 2019 Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.