 By Chimezie Godfrey The League of Women Voters of Nigeria(NILOWV) has called on
INEC, security agencies and other key stakeholders to prosecute those
responsible for undermining the integrity of the electoral process to serve as
a deterrent to others in future elections. Okiemute Olori, the program manager/ Head Observers Team who
made this call during a press briefing on Friday in Abuja decried the
widespread of violence in Kogi East and Kogi West which resulted in women being
driven out of polling units. Olori disclosed that Lokoja LGA recorded the highest numbers
of incidences of violence in Kogi West with 4 persons reportedly killed in
Adankolo. She added that violence was also recorded in Ganaja and
phase 2, among other places, with ballot boxes snatched amidst sporadic
shootings with some security operatives giving cover for the thugs to operate. She pointed out that the election in Kogi state was poorly
secured as the process was taken over by armed thugs and hoodlums after the
opening of the polls. The Program Manager, revealed that armed security operatives
were openly seen firing gunshots at polling units to disperse Voters while
hoodlums had a field day carting away ballot boxes and destroying some. She said for instance, at Ugwolawo in Ofu LGA, an elderly
woman was beaten up together with her daughter who stood in her defense of
voting for a candidate of her choice. The league therefore called on relevant authorities to
prosecute all those who perpetrated violence, and other crimes during the Kogi
state elections. “The League of Women Voters of Nigeria therefore calls
on INEC, Security agencies, and other key stakeholders to hold those
responsible for undermining the integrity of the electoral process and
prosecute them in accordance with the electoral act 2010, and other extant
laws, to serve as a deterrent to others in future elections. “The league urges Nigerian women not to be deterred by
the violence that took the shine off the elections, and lending their voices to
Advocate for peaceful elections in Nigeria,” Olori said. She also revealed that there was vote trading during the
elections through a sophisticated network of party merchants, with party agents
watching voters closely to interfere in the voting patterns and influence for
their parties and candidates. Speaking earlier on the Bayelsa state elections, she said
that the state elections was generally peaceful except for some pockets of
violence which was witnessed in Ekeremo and Nembe local government areas, which
no casualty was recorded. She applauded the security operatives at Bayelsa state
elections who conducted themselves in a professional manner and maintained
peace and orderliness in the polling units. According to her, elections in Bayelsa state this time can
be adjudged to be more peaceful compared to previous elections conducted in the
state. The League of Women Voters of Nigeria, a network of Nigerian
women in all 36 states of Nigeria and FCT, deployed 120 observers for the
observation of the governorship elections in both Kogi and Bayelsa on the 16th
of  November 2019. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.