The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Lagos office, today, November 21, 2019 secured an order of a Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos for the final forfeiture of N280,555,010  belonging  to two companies  owned by Obinwanne Okeke also known as Invictus Obi, a ‘Forbes entrepreneur’. The companies are: Invictus Oil and Gas Limited and Invictus Investment Limited. Justice Rilwan Aikawa issued the order of final forfeiture following a  motion filed and argued by Rotimi Oyedepo,  counsel to the EFCC. At the resumed hearing today, Oyedepo informed the court that all requirements for the  final forfeiture had been met, with the publication of the ‘interim order’ in the Nation Newspaper of  October 25, 2019. He therefore,  prayed the court to grant the application for final forfeiture, adding that “there is no interested party or parties nor individual who had shown cause why the money should not be finally forfeited”. Before delivering his ruling, Justice Aikawa, noted that : “I have seen the application seeking for the final forfeiture of the sum of N280.5 million warehoused in the two bank accounts which is reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activities. “I am satisfied that the requirements enumerated under Section 17 of the Advanced Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act have been met by the applicant in this suit. Consequently, this application is hereby granted as prayed as it remains unchallenged”. Justice Aikawa consequently ruled that the sum of N280.5 million  in FCMB and Zenith Bank accounts numbers: 3341692012  and 1013714256 respectively, be forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria. Okeke, 31, was “a strong leader of a cybercrime syndicate specializing in business email compromise”. In an affidavit filed in support of the forfeiture application, EFCC investigator, Ariyo Muritala, disclosed that the Commission’s investigation was triggered by a  request for information on Okeke and three others by the United States Department of Justice, Office of the Legal Attache, US Consulate General. Okeke was in 2016 celebrated by Forbes International as one of Africa’s most outstanding 30 enterpreneurs under the age of 30 and described by the magazine as “proof that there is hope for Africa”. But he was arrested in August this year by the American Federal Bureau of Investigation as the ringleader of a cybercrime syndicate, which had defrauded a number of American citizens to the tune of $11m “through fraudulent wire transfer instructions in a massive coordinated business email compromise scheme.” Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing. Howdy! I know this is somewhat off topic but I was wondering which blog platform are you using for
this site? I’m getting tired of WordPress because I’ve had problems with hackers and I’m looking at alternatives for another platform.
I would be fantastic if you could point me in the direction of a good platform. I like reading through an article that can make men and women think.
Also, thanks for allowing for me to comment! Its such as you read my thoughts! You seem to know a lot approximately this,
like you wrote the e book in it or something. I believe that you simply can do with a few percent to drive the message house a bit,
however instead of that, that is great blog. An excellent read.
I’ll definitely be back. you are actually a just right webmaster. The site loading velocity
is amazing. It seems that you’re doing any distinctive trick.
Also, The contents are masterpiece. you’ve performed
a excellent process on this topic! Great weblog right here! Additionally your web site
so much up very fast! What web host are you using? Can I get your associate hyperlink for your host?
I desire my web site loaded up as quickly as yours
lol Actually when someone doesn’t be aware of after that its up to other people that they will help, so here it occurs. Having read this I believed it was extremely informative. I appreciate you spending some time and effort to put
this short article together. I once again find myself spending a significant amount of time both reading and posting comments.
But so what, it was still worth it! Hi there, You have done an incredible job. I will certainly digg it and personally
recommend to my friends. I am confident they’ll be benefited from
this site. I have learn several excellent stuff here. Certainly price bookmarking
for revisiting. I wonder how much effort you put to create one of these wonderful informative site. Hi to every single one, it’s really a nice for me to pay a visit this site, it contains valuable Information. I want to to thank you for this great read!!
I absolutely loved every bit of it. I’ve got you book marked to check out new things you post…