 By Danlami Nmodu Twenty four hours after reports emerged about the sack of
some  aides  to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo,SAN, the
Presidency has remained silent on the matter. No official statement confirming
or denying the story has been forthcoming. Despite that names of some of those sacked have emerged as gleaned from   a list  published by TheBridgenews,an online newspaper(Click to view list) Unofficial sources   earlier told Newsdiaryonline   that some of the vice President’s aides had been  served with their sack letters as at Wednesday morning. It was also learnt that tags which usually grant access to the Villa have been withdrawn  from some of those affected. However the Presidency remained silent on the matter. The report of the sack of Osinbajo’s aides was broken by
DailyNigerian  an online newspaper, and
set the stage for several frenetic follow-ups by many other platforms. Several  newspapers led with the story Thursday. One of the most insightful reports Thursday  was that of Daily Trust, which  reported that Vice President Osinbajo has
retrieved the sack letters from his affected aides pending the return of
President Muhammadu Buhari. However, there are unconfirmed reports that the VP’s
attempt to retrieve the letters may have failed. Perception of growing
unease There has been a perception of growing unease in the
relationship between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo. The latest unconfirmed report of the sack of Osinbajo’s aides
has further fueled the perception of unease in the relationship between the
President and the vice president. Two days ago, President Buhari signed the amended Production
Sharing Contract in London  fueling
speculation as brilliantly captured by Daily Trust that Buhari has left
Osinbajo “floating”. This was quickly followed by the DailyNigerian exclusive
on the alleged sack of Osinbajo’s aides. Hitherto, several agencies under the office of the Vice
president were removed from him and placed under the President’s control. The
Economic Management Team (EMT) led by Osinbajo was disbanded and a new Economic
Advisory Council under the direct control of the President was constituted
recently. All these moves gave vent to speculations of unease and a cold
war. But there is  no confirmation of any
open rift. Despite perception of
rift, Osinbajo still presides over FEC Meetings in Buhari’s Absence One clear fact is  that the Vice President has been carrying out
official functions apparently unhindered despite the perception of unease or
rift between the top guns. He has presided over Federal Executive Council meetings
since President Buhari,  for instance,
travelled  to recently to Saudi Arabia
and later moved to London on a private visit (and,  as well,  working visit, as it is now public knowledge
with the signing of the amended PSC bill into an Act). Despite the perception,
the machinery of government is functioning. Or so it seems. Perceived Buhari – Osinbajo
“rift” re-echoes  Obasanjo – Atiku  years The perceived rift between President Buhari and VP Osinbajo
has brought back memories of President Olusegun Obasanjo’s rift with Vice
President Atiku Abubakar. In the heat of the crisis, Obasanjo sacked some aides
of Atiku. Mallam Garba Shehu, the present Senior Special Assistant to President
Buhari on Media and Publicity was a victim of Obasanjo’s power play. Shehu was
then one of the aides of Atiku. The presidency however said through an aide that Buhari has
not undermined Osinbajo, neither has he been relegated. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.