By Chimezie Godfrey As the electoral process progressed
at the weekend,YIAGA Africa, Watching the Vote, was one of the CSO groups that called
on all people of Kogi state, the parties and candidates, INEC and security
forces to play their parts to ensure a peaceful, credible, and conclusive
process of Kogi state elections. The Chairman, YIAGA Africa, ‘Watching
the votes – Kogi Observation Mission, Dr. Hussaini Abdu who stated this during
a briefing with Journalists on Sunday in Abuja, commended the people of Kogi
for their resilience, commitment and determination to cast their votes in the
elections. He however, decried the incidences
of violence, disruption and destruction of electoral materials and process,
vote buying, ballot paper/box snatching among others, and therefore called on
all political stakeholders to allow peaceful and credible elections in the
state. “We urge political stakeholders
to show greater commitment to democracy and credible elections “YIAGA Africa with her citizens
observers the elections on behalf of the people of Kogi and Nigerians, to
ensure people’s votes are accurately counted and declared. “We call on all people of Kogi
state, the parties and candidates, INEC and the security forces to play their
parts to ensure a peaceful, credible and conclusive process,” he said. Abdu disclosed that YIAGA Africa has
deployed the Parallel Vote Tabulation(PVT) which is an advanced and proven
methodology that employs well established statistical principles and utilizes
sophisticated information technologies for election observation. He pointed out that with the PVT,
YIAGA Africa can independently determine if the official result announced
reflects the votes cast. He revealed some critical findings
from some LGAs in the state, which border on issues of voter inducement, vote
buying, none use  of card reader for accreditation , disruption of
election at polling units, and denying observers access to observe at polling
units, among others. According to Abdu, in the light of
the above findings, YIAGA Africa has made some  preliminary
recommendations in order to ensure credible elections in Kogi state. He said,” YIAGA Africa condemns
the violence and brigandage in some polling units resulting to disruption of
voting. YIAGA Africa calls on INEC to cancel elections in those polling e with
cases of snatching of ballot papers/boxes, violence, and disruption. “In the spirit of transparency,
YIAGA Africa calls on INEC to make public the list of polling units where
elections are cancelled. Security agencies should ensure adequate security is
provided to enable voters and INEC complete the process of voting, result
collation and declaration. “YIAGA Africa condemns the
blatant vote buying observed within proximity of polling units. Voters should
respect the secrecy of the ballot by complying with the laid down procedure for
the folding of ballot papers and voting. “YIAGA Africa calls on deployed
security agents to provide speedy response to critical incidents, especially,
the reports of violent disruption of the process and distruction of 
election materials in some polling units. We encourage personnel to remain
professional and non-partisan while on duty.” YIAGA Africa also urged the
governorship and senatorial candidates and their political parties to show
maturity and respect for the voting process and laws of the country, among
others recommendations. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.