The Institute of Social Work of
Nigeria (ISWON) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to assent
to the Nigerian Council for Social Work Bill passed by the National
Assembly. Dr John Emaimo, the Executive
Secretary of the ISWON, made the appeal on the sideline of institute’s 10th
Annual Conference on Monday in Abuja. He said the bill, which seeks to
establish the council to regulate the practice of professional social work in
the country, would help social workers to have legal backing. “It is encouraging that the Federal
Government recently established the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management and Social Development. “Therefore, since social work is for
the welfare of the society, we need to work together with the ministry and
reorganise ourselves for better service delivery,” he said. Emaimo also called on social workers
to be professional in the discharge of their duties and encouraged them to
engage in continuous training for improved performance. In his remark, Mr Aliyu Abubakar,
Director General, Legal Aid Council of Nigeria, said that the council was
working toward introducing a police duty solicitor scheme to support social
work activities in the country. According to him, the scheme will
ensure that lawyers are stationed at different police stations to provide legal
intervention to indigent Nigerians at the point of detention. Mr Tony Ojukwu, the Executive
Secretary, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), also charged social workers
to understand their roles in the advancement of human rights. Ojukwu, who was represented by Mr
Iheme Richmond, said that social workers should always see themselves as
professional care givers. “As a helping profession, you ought
to scale up practice aimed at bringing about needed changes in persons,
families, communities and the social environment. “You need to promote human wellbeing
by strengthening opportunities, resources and capacities of people in their
environment. “You must also create polices and
services to correct the conditions that limit human rights and the quality of
life,” he said. The two-day conference with the
theme: ‘Repositioning Social Work Practice for National Development’ had
participants from the 36 states and the FCT. (NAN) Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.