By Chimezie Godfrey Dorothy Njemanze Foundation (DNF)
has urged the government to declare a state of emergency on how the Nigeria Police
Force responds to sexual and gender based violence in the country. Dorothy Njemanze, the Executive
Director, (NDF), who made the call during an interactive session with
journalists on Friday in Abuja said that the Nigerian police are not sensitive
to the plight of victims of sexual and gender based violence in the country. She said the police  are currently run as a business as far as she
is concerned and therefore called for declaration of a state of emergency on
police response to sexual and gender based violence in Nigeria. “Majority of those who need
access to Justice cannot afford the services of engaging the police. People
still pay for files in the police station. “People pay for everything the
police does, visitations to the crime scene and medicals. Every appearance of
the police prosecution people still pay money. “A state of emergency needs to
be declared on how the Nigerian police responds to sexual and gender based
violence. “Deliberate funding for police
investigation is the way forward for police investigation of gender violence to
progress,” she said. Njemanze disclosed that in most
cases rapists pay the police to influence the investigation and handling of to
their advantage. “So, in 2015, we handled the
case of a child two years and eleven months, at Elelenwo in Port-Harcourt and
in that particular case the police was said to have collected N240,000 from the
rapist and released him. “But by the time we exposed the
case on social media the case started all over again and this year we got judgment
on that matter and the rapist was sentenced to ten years in prison this year
2019. “We have too many cases that
are charged to wrong courts, they are charged to urban area court as lesser
crime, and in addition to being charged to wrong court for lesser  crime,
we have more cases of the perpetrators paying money to police so that the
matter is sabotaged,” Njemanze revealed. She decried the fact that
investigations are not done properly, adding that the police do not have the
right documentations to approach the court. “The police is supposed to help
victims to document evidence in such a way that such evidence is tenable in law
court but that has not been happening. “We are just calling on
Nigerian government to be more responsible and responsive to the plight of
victims of sexual and gender based violence, just for the reason that they are
beings and deserve the right to be protected. “The government should be
responsible enough and provide funding for the medical intervention and legal
intervention, then the government would have done a lot for them. “The government can also
support organizations, local organizations on ground like us because we are the
ones that these victims trust. “We are partners in progress
with the government, we are not at loggerheads with the police or any of the
apparatus of the police. “We will not hesitate to
approach the court and take legal action to defend our right to push for access
to justice for our clients. She called for a better partnership
with government and deliberate funding  also by the government of their
activities, adding that they very willing to share their reports, even willing
to give total credit to the government. She  revealed that there were
death threats on her life which was treated with levity and therefore called on
the government to give adequate protection to human rights defenders in
Nigeria. Njemanze called on the government to
honour the ECOWAS judgment that awarded her and two other plaintiffs. “Iam begging that government
should honour the judgement, because it goes even beyond the monetary, because
if government had honoured the judgement the Abuja rapes this would not have
happened.The many women violated this year would not have been violated. “We won’t stop pointing out
these issues because there is a direct link between the court honouring the
ECOWAS judgement in Dorothy Njemanze and three others case versus the Federal
Republic of Nigeria and  the violations that women and children are
suffering in Nigeria today,” she sobbed.