 Minister of Transportation, Chibuike
Rotimi Amaechi has said that about 5000 jobs would be generated from the
railway Wagon Assembly Plant being built at Kajola in Ogun State. Amaechi said the Plant is one of the
gains of the Federal Government’s partnership with the Chinese Civil
Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC) on the ongoing rail construction
projects, particularly, the contract for the supply of rolling stock for the
Abuja-Kaduna, Warri-Itakpe and Lagos-Ibadan rail lines. The Minister spoke during the
Plant’s ground-breaking ceremony performed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at
the project site in Kajola, weekend. He said, “To meet the increasing
demand of both passenger and freight on the new Nigeria Standard Gauge Railway
Service, the Federal Government awarded contract for the procurement of Rolling
Stock, that is, Locomotives, Coaches, Wagons and contemporary Diesel Multiple
Units to serve movement of passengers and freight on the Abuja-Kaduna, Itakpe –
Ajaokuta – Warri train services as well as the ongoing Lagos – Ibadan Railway.
It will also serve any railway service in the West-African sub-region. “The Ministry of Transportation
realizing the need of the advantage to set up this type of plant considering
the potential need in view of the on-going rail projects in the country and the
sub-region, encouraged Messrs CCECC to establish this plant. It is expected
that the plant would generate job opportunities for Nigerians and as well
facilitate the much-desired objective of the government towards the local
content capacity development. “It was in the pursuit of these
objectives that the Federal Ministry of Transportation signed an agreement with
Messrs. CCECC Nig. Limited in March, 2018 to establish this plant for the
production and assembling of rolling stock, spare parts and maintenance
equipment in Nigeria. Consequently, Messrs. CCECC conducted a feasibility study
in which the choice of Kajola, Ogun State was arrived at as the suitable
location for the project. “This project is therefore a direct
investment of Messrs. CCECC Nig. Ltd in the country and would remain as part of
the gains from the contract signed for the Supply of rolling stock. This will
be the first of its kind in Nigeria and the first batch of the wagons to be
assembled from the production line of this plant will form part of the rolling stock
for Lagos – Ibadan and Abuja – Kaduna Railway operations. Subsequently, other
rolling stock would be produced as its production capacities increase. “The project when completed would be
able to generate about 5,000 jobs and in the long run Nigeria would be able to
manufacture rolling stock for Nigerian use and for other African countries.
More so, we would be able to conserve our much-needed foreign exchange, which
can be deployed to other areas of development. Among all these, it is cardinal
to mention that the sustainability of our railway modernization projects would
depend on our ability to develop local capacity to construct, maintain and
manage our new railway system.” Commending CCECC for their effort
and commitment to the project, Amaechi called for all necessary support to be
given to the company to achieve success. “This project is germane to the
railway development in Nigeria and CCECC should be given every reasonable
support to actualize this investment. While performing the ground-breaking
ceremony of the Plant, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo hailed Transportation
Minister, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi for his commitment to the project and all
rail projects across the country. “Let me commend the Federal Ministry
of Transportation led by the very able and dynamic Hon. Minister of
Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi or Chibuike Amaechi, (today he is Rotimi since
we are in the South West) for the very hard work and commitment he has
demonstrated from the inception of our rail modernization project. And also to
the Chinese government, particularly the investor, CCECC Nigeria Limited for
this significant and strategic investment. “The vision you have shown and the
initiative you have taken in the larger development journey of this great
country will reap unparalleled rewards for you and great opportunity for our
people. He noted that the project is an
important one for Nigeria, as it would not only produce, but provide support
and growth for indigenous engineers and generate employment for thousands of
Nigerians. “This ceremony is not just another
event, it is a historic turning point, for us, the railway is not just an
alternative and comfortable mode of travel, it holds the master key to
transforming commerce in Nigeria and across the continent. “By linking our ports to rail lines
and now, building the rolling stock locally, import and export business within
and out of Africa’s largest market will be completely transformed. When
completed, it is expected that the plant would produce some parts of the wagons
for the Lagos – Ibadan and Abuja – Kaduna rail lines, but also for the central
rail lines and to satisfy the needs of other rail operators within the
West-African sub-region. “Secondly the citing of the plant
here in Nigeria and the commitment to hiring Nigerians and Nigerian businesses
affirms the Presidents directives in Executive Order 5 on prioritizing
Nigerians and Nigerian businesses in the innovation, production and procurement
of engineering projects and services. “The plant would offer an important
platform for engineers, technicians, artisans and other professionals to gain
the specialized skills required for the production and maintenance of rolling
stock. This will invariably conduce to spin-off businesses in the region of
operation in particular and across the country wherever rail networks are in
existence. The plant is expected to generate about five thousand direct and
indirect jobs. Osinbajo also reiterated the Federal
Government’s commitment to the rail modernisation projects, rail extension to
the Apapa Port and the completion of the Ibadan inland dry port. “We are optimizing the Lagos-Ibadan
rail modernization project by extending it to the Apapa Port, the nation’s
busiest port for the efficient movement of cargo from the port to various
destinations. This will expedite import/export flows, decongest the ports, and
depressurize our roads in the process. “Also, we are putting all mechanisms
in place to achieve the swift completion of the Ibadan Inland Dry port which
will off-take containers and cargoes from Apapa port through the Lagos – Ibadan
rail line. Also, Managing Director of CCECC,
Jiang Yigao expressed the company’s commitment to work with Nigerian
authorities to achieve the country’s aim of modernising its railway. He explained the motive behind the
Wagon Assembly Plant project and the benefits that would accrue to Nigeria
through the project. “The concept of this Wagon Assembly
Plant is to grow local technology and ultimately make Nigeria not only
self-sufficient in certain components of locomotive rolling stock, but also an
exporter. With the completion and operation of the Abuja to Kaduna Railway,
Abuja Rail Mass Transit and work on other railway projects, the plant will play
a pivotal role in ensuring the provision of wagons. The socio-economic benefits
of the plant cannot be overemphasized. A number of youths will be employed and
it will stimulate the creation of other ancillary jobs and bring development
not only to Kajola community but the South West in general. “The plant has the capacity to
produce 500 wagons per year and will undertake key production processes like
welding, assembly, painting, drying and testing. It has the capacity to produce
open, container, flat, tank and box wagons. Nigeria is surely marching to
greater development and CCECC will continue to partner with Nigeria in ensuring
the technological development of the country. “Today, the construction of the
wagon assembly plant will open a new chapter of railway construction in
Nigeria, which will help Nigeria speed up the railway industrialization chain.” 