The Senate on Wednesday approved a
promissory note issuance in the sum of N10.069 billion for Kogi State
Government for projects executed on behalf of the Federal Government. The approval is sequel to the
presentation and consideration of a report by the Senate Committee on Local and
Foreign Debts. Recall that President Buhari, in a
letter written two weeks ago to the Senate, had requested for an approval for
the refund to be made to the Kogi State Government. Chairman of the Senate Committee on
Local and Foreign Debts, Senator Clifford Ordia, said “the approved sum is in
Capital Expenditure which has to do with refund to the State Government for
monies spent in the execution of Federal Government Projects in the state.” According to the lawmaker, key
officials of the state government were invited to brief the committee in the
course of its legislative work. Ordia further disclosed that the
committee also assessed all submissions made by the Federal Ministry of
Finance, alongside documents from the Bureau of Public Procurement and Kogi
State Government. The Committee in its report stated
that it undertook an oversight visit to Kogi State to assess the projects and
maintained that the said projects met the required standard by the Federal
Ministry of Works and Housing. The projects inspected by the
Committee are: reconstruction of Shintaku-Odugbo road, reconstruction of
Ganaja-Ajaokuta road, reconstruction of Idah-Onyedega road, and dualization of
Lokoja-Ganaja road. Other executed federal projects are:
reconstruction of three-span bridge along Shintaku-Odugbo road, reconstruction
of four-span bridge along Shintaku-Odugbo road, and reconstruction of
Iyamoje-Igagun-Ifeolu-Kptun-Ponyan-Jegede road. The committee, in its findings,
stated that “inspections were carried out by the Federal Ministry of Works and
Housing,” adding that Kogi State has completed all the said projects and paid
all contractors that executed them. Senator Jibrin Barau (APC, Kano
North), while commending the Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, said “Kogi
has done very well. This should be approved so as to show other governments to
take a cue.” Coming under a point of order, the
Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, however argued that the
Senate’s approval be delayed until after the Kogi governorship election
scheduled to hold this weekend. He said: “States that have done the
work of the Federal Government should be paid. “I agree they should be paid, what I
don’t want is misuse of this fund. I have the mandate of the minority to say
this can wait until next week. Let’s us delay for only one week, after
elections then they can be paid.” The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan,
in a counter argument, explained that Kogi State was entitled to be paid all
monies spent on the execution of Federal Government projects in the state. According to Lawan, Kogi State was
denied an approval for refund while 24 state governments received an approval
under the Eight Senate. “Kogi State applied for this refund
in the last Senate. All the States that applied were approved here by the last
Senate. “Now as the ninth Senate, we have
seen the necessity and are doing justice. We have done justice to others, and
we have to do justice to Kogi State. When it is done is not the matter.” The Senate eventually approved
President Buhari’s request for a refund to Kogi State government after a voice
vote called by the Senate President. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.