The Netherlands says it will
continue to provide humanitarian assistance to those in need, particularly
women and girls, to mitigate the impact of insecurity and displacement
occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram sect in Nigeria. The Prime Minister of The
Netherlands, Mark Rutte, gave the assurance when he fielded questions during a
joint press briefing, at the end of bilateral meeting with President Muhammadu
Buhari at the State House, Abuja, on Tuesday. He said: “Yes. We discussed at
length the situations both in the Netherlands as well as in Nigeria and also
what is happening in the different regions. “And we try to be involved as much
as possible. As we have this long standing relationship between our two
countries we have a very active embassy here, there is a very active ambassador
in the European and the Dutch side and from the Nigeria, we can work together
and we can deal with these issues, some of these things are very practical. “For example we discussed in 2018 at
length one issue, the Lake Chad question and we discussed what we can do
together. “We hosted a meeting in the
Netherlands this year on Lake Chad and what we can do in the immediate future. On the difficulty being experienced
by Nigerians in getting visa to the Netherlands, Rutte assured that a current
situation where Nigerians have to go through the French or the Belgian embassy
to get visa would be reviewed. “I know this is a sensitive issue.
While I was preparing for this visit, the issue came up. I cannot give you a
definitive answer. “I can only tell you that I am very
much aware of this issue and there is a particular problem here and that is
that the Netherlands is part of the European Schengen area and the visa we use
together in the various countries. “And that is why the Belgian and
French embassies are taking care of the visa administration being handled for
the Netherlands. “I am very much aware of this and
technology will probably help us in the immediate future as we look into a more
proper solution. “So, I cannot give you any answer
yet but it is very much in our agenda because we know this is a very sensitive
issue both for us and Nigeria,’’ he added. Rutte, who said he was visiting
Nigeria for the first time, said he was very impressive with the visit. He said: “It’s my first visit to
Nigeria and like I said at the lunch meeting, I am very impressed. Everything
in this country is huge, is big. It’s 20 times the size of the Netherlands and
more people live in Lagos than the whole of my country. “In the tete a tete, the discussions
we had with the business leaders, it is very clear that despite the fact that
there are so many differences that we have a lot to offer each other be it
politically, economically or culturally. “Politically, Nigeria has taken its
responsibility as one of Africa’s most important countries by playing a leading
role in the region and by this way expanding democracy in West Africa. “I have deep respect for the way
Nigeria is doing this including the leadership of the president. “I also want to express my
appreciation for Nigeria’s active role in promoting international law in the
International Criminal Court in The Hague. “Our countries, Nigeria and
Netherlands share the belief that international law contributes to a fair and
safer world.’’(NAN) Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.