By Chimezie Godfrey The Minister of Science and
Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu has reiterated the commitment of the government to
make Nigeria a great nation through the application of the best ideas. Onu stated this on Monday in Abuja
during the launch of a book titled, “The Powers That Be…Thoughts and
Reflections on People, Power and Politics,” authored by the Managing
Director of the Sun Newspaper, Onuoha Ukeh. “I am very happy to speak
about somebody who (has) done so much for the country. “The managing director and
editor in chief of the Sun Newspaper, Mr Onuoha Oke has spent time to lead us
into his thoughts about our country. “I have not read this book but
from what he has said, the “Powers That Be” represents what he has
thought about our country over long period of time. “We are all interested in
making Nigeria a truly great nation, and we know that  it is ideas that rules the world. “And for those of us who are in
government, and we will go to any extent to look for the best ideas that can
help us to do the very best for our nation. “Today is a very important day
to me because we are celebrating excellence. We are celebrating the best that
we can get from our people. “We thank you because you are
contributing to scholarship, we thank you because this book will be read by
many people. “I know students, those
studying mass communication, journalism, will read what you have written. Those
studying history, and different subject areas will find this book very
useful. “I encourage us to buy this
book and not only to buy but to read the book because  it is in reading it that the ideals of this
book can be used to develop the nation. Onuoha Ukeh, the author of the book,
and the Managing Director and Editor in Chief, the Sun Newspaper, said 
that the book talks about people, politics and power. According to him, some have looked
at the book and they exclaimed and asked if he really has the nerve to talk
about the power that be, adding that he was not surprised by their reactions as
they tend to always think about the people in government and corridors of power
whenever such is mentioned. He said,”Someone looked at the
tittle of the books and exclaimed,”The Powers That Be.” He asked if I
really have the nerve and the temerity to talk about the powers that be. “I was not surprised by his
reaction because when we hear the powers that be, the general impression is
that we are talking about those in government and corridors of power who make
things happen. “Some people will say, we are
talking about that secret political clique or what we like to call the (cabal
in) government. “Yes, the powers- that- be are
people in government who command such power, those whose actions and inactions
make or mar the society. “However, the powers- that- be
are much more than that, we all the powers- that- be. “Whether you are the president,
governor, minister, commissioner, political party chairman, permanent
secretary, lecturer, civil servants, husband or wife, we all the powers that
be.” Ukeh said that it does not matter
if  we consider ourselves as the third class or as the dredges of the
society, that as long as our actions or inactions impact on other people or
influence the decisions of the society, we are the powers –that- be. He therefore said that citizens
should mind what they do as their actions have consequences. “The book the ” Powers
That Be’ is about us as a people. It is my views about things that happened in
the country and elsewhere. “As a journalist and a
columnist, I express my opinion about issues without let or hindrance. My
positions may be popular or unpopular, but whether popular or not, I write to
provoke thoughts, actions and reactions, he said. Dignitaries who graced occasion included Lai Mohammed Minister of information and culture, represented by Victor Arewa, the Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha represented by Steve Osuji. Others are Osita Okechukwu, the DG, Voice of Nigeria while members of Nollywood were also present.