A photojournalist with the Vanguard
Newspapers, attached to the Aso Rock Villa, Mr. Abayomi Adeshida, was on
Thursday morning beaten up by security details of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. The incident took place at the State
House Banquet Hall, Abuja during the opening session of the Nigeria Diaspora
Investment Summit organised by the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission NiDCOM,
chaired by Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa. Narrating his experience to journalists,
Adeshida said he was taking photographs of the Vice-President taking a tour of
the exhibition stands at the event, when five personnel of the Department of
State Services (DSS) suddenly pounced on him as Osinbajo was being presented a
copy of magazine as souvenir at a particular stand. Adeshida said he was not told his
supposed infraction as he was not in any way obstructing the event or doing
anything out of the ordinary before the security details started hitting him,
dragged him over the floor and damaged his professional camera, right in the
presence of the Vice-President. “I was shocked when these DSS
started beating me for no apparent reason. They tore off my Presidential Villa
accreditation tag on the shirt and dragged me on the floor while hitting me and
kicking me. “I believe they would have done much
worse if not for the intervention of the Vice-President’s Aide-de-Camp (ADC),
who I noticed was making hand movements for them to leave me alone. “I am feeling pains all over my body
and a particular sever pain on my right leg on which I don’t even know what
they hit me with”, the Adeshida before he headed for the hospital for
treatment. No other aides of the Vice-President made
efforts to stop the humiliation of the journalist in the presence of Osibanjo,
who may have been embarrassed by the situation. The incident happened a day after 35
aides of the Vice-President wer bye reported sacked on the orders of President
Muhammadu Buhari, who is away on a private visit to the United Kingdom. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.