By Chimezie Godfrey President Muhammadu Buhari has said
that the 2018 report of the National Demographic and Health Survey, NDHS will
provide important data in planning programmes and policies towards achieving the
sustainable development goals and well being of Nigerians. He made this assertion during the
National Dissemination and official launch of the 2018, NDHS report on Tuesday
at Abuja. The national dissemination and
official launch of the 2018 NDHS report which was conducted by the National
Population Commission (NPC) in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of
Health, brought together key MDAs, including national and international non
governmental Organizations. Represented by the Minister of
Health, Osagie Ehanire, Buhari said  the
report was comprehensive and that it will provide important data for planning
programmes and policies that will improve the health system in Nigeria. The National Demographic Health
Survey is conducted every five years, and provides analysis most especially in
the health sector. It provide an up to date demographic and health information
and data of Nigerians. Buhari pointed out that the last
survey done in 2013 was received with mixed feelings, he however, added that
the latest one has generated much interest and with a lot of
expectations. “I wish to say that the 2018
NDHS is an improvement on the precious survey because it also gathered data on
ailments like malaria, sickle cell disease and on efficient transportation
system as well as information, even on domestic violence and people with
disabilities. “The final report of the 2018
NDHS check is therefore particularly comprehensive and will provide important
data for planning programmes and policy decisions and that can be used to
adjust our approach and make critical impact to health care service delivery
and human capital development index towards achieving the sustainable
development goals and the well being of Nigerians. “The official launch of this
report has brought together key ministries, departments, agencies, development
partners, national and international none governmental Organizations. It is a
testimony of its importance in our development efforts. “The  federal ministry of
health will make good use of its findings on policy formulation and aligning
proper strategies and interventions in the health sector,” he said. The Acting Chairman, National
Population Commission, Bimbola Salu-Hundeyin appreciated President Buhari for
granting the commission the opportunity to contribute it’s quota to national
planning. Salu-Hundeyin urged critical
stakeholders to study and use the data from the 2018 NDHS report to help
identify priority action areas in the Nigerian health sector. “I must thank the Secretary the
Government of Federation for his constant supportive role to the national
population commission. “It is our hope at the
commission that at the end of this official launch of the 2018 Nigeria
Demographic and Health Survey report, policy makers, relevant  government
ministries, departments and agencies, the organized private sector and other
data end-users will take this report as a call to action, study it very carefully
and use the data to identify priority action areas,” he said. Dignitaries who were ably represented
at the event include Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture
represented by the Director, Public Communications and National
Orientation,(FMIC) Priscilla Ihuoma, the Secretary to the Government of the
Federation, Boss Mustapha, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Cabinet
Office, Dr. Tunde Lawal, among others. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.