The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State has dismissed as ruse an allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), that there is a plot to rig the forthcoming governorship election in the state. A statement by the APC State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo, accused PDP of having a fondness for diversionary allegations, which in actual fact describe their own perverse schemes. “We have once again learnt about a deceptive allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) linking our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and the Nigerian Army with an alleged plan to rig the coming governorship election in the state. “While we cannot speak for the Nigerian Army, APC completely dismisses the attempt to link it with poll rigging as a low trick invented to conceal PDP’s signature electoral character of thuggery, fraud, violence, and manipulation. This is yet another shameless and mischievous allegation by the PDP for which there is not a shred of evidence “Time and again it has been shown that Bayelsa PDP’s keenness for bogus allegations and ‘uncovering plans’, especially before a major election, are actually an indirect disclosure of their own malicious plots. PDP in the state has fooled the country, and sometimes the security services, over and over by crying fake tears of apprehension. “We use this opportunity to also alert the security agencies to the urgent need to dig deeper into PDP’s predilection for strange accusations ahead of the November 16 governorship election. Like crocodiles that are believed to shed tears while consuming their prey, PDP in Bayelsa State is known for deceptive alarm raised to cover up their own evil machinations. “Governor Henry Seriake Dickson and his PDP must not be allowed to derail this election. Having seen the handwriting on the wall pertaining their imminent fall from power, there is a strong suspicion, backed up by history, that Dickson may become fiercer in his deployment of crude power during the coming poll. He has since fallen out with the critical segment of his party and his most likely fallback strategy may be to play the spoiler by creating confusion and trying to prevent APC’s increasingly glaring victory. “But we are unperturbed. We are not in this election to chase shadows. We are here to win. AND WE WILL WIN.” Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.