The Governor of Ekiti State and
the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and the
Governor of Sokoto State and the Deputy Chairman of the Nigerian Governors
Forum, Mallam Aminu Tambuwal, will both speak at an International Conference on
“20
Years of Democracy in Nigeria: 1999-2019” at Oxford University, United Kingdom on
Friday, 6th December 2019. The one-day Conference is hosted by the African Studies Centre, University of Oxford.
Governors Fayemi and Tambuwal, who will be the special guests at the
conference, are expected to reflect on Nigeria’s Fourth Republic in their
addresses to the international audience. Renowned American scholar of democracy
and author of Class, Ethnicity and Democracy in Nigeria: The Failure of the First Republic,
Professor Larry Diamond, will give the keynote address at the conference where
many scholars based in Nigeria, Europe and the United States will present
papers. Diamond will speak on “20 years of Semi-Democracy in Nigeria: Future
Challenges for Democratic Development.” The convener of the conference, Professor
Wale Adebanwi, who is the Director of the Oxford African Studies Centre and
Rhodes Professor of Race Relations states that: “As Nigeria celebrates two
decades of democracy, the structural errors of the state and the fundamental
contradictions of the society that democratic governance was expected to
confront or manage have deepened. The hopes invested in the country’s return to
democratic rule in 1999 seem to be flagging as Nigeria is confronted with a
myriad of political, economic and social crises. Yet, given her historical
experiences, there is no better alternative to democratic governance in
Nigeria.” In light of this, the participants at the conference “will explore the political, economic and social
forces, processes, and challenges which have shaped Nigeria in the Fourth
Republic.” Those
expected to present papers at the conference include Professor Eghosa Osaghae,
formerly the Vice Chancellor of the Igbinedon University, Dr Jibrin Ibrahim of
the Centre for Democracy and Development, Abuja, Dr Peter Lewis of Johns
Hopkins University, USA, Professor Adigun Agbaje of the University of Ibadan, Professor
Okechukwu Ibeanu of INEC, Abuja, Dr Aliyu Moddibo Umar, former FCT Minister and
currently a Visiting Fellow at Oxford University, Ms Idayat Hassan of the CCD,
Abuja, Dr Zainab Usman of the World Bank, Dr Kingsley Moghalu, former Deputy
Governor of the Central Bank, Professor Nic Cheeseman of Birmingham University,
UK, Professor Rotimi Suberu of Bennington University, USA, Professor Ebenezer
Obadare of the University of Kansas, USA, Dr Adam Higazi of the University of
Amsterdam, The Netherlands and Professor Ricardo Soares de Oliviera of Oxford
University. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.