By Chimezie Godfrey The Forum of Chairmen of 
Nigeria Political Parties on Monday said security agents and politicians should
be held responsible for the violence and other electoral fraud witnessed during
the just concluded Bayelsa and Kogi states governorship elections. Addressing journalists after a
review of the conduct of the elections in the two states, the forum also called
for an urgent conclusion of the process of the amendment of the Electoral Act,
introducing electronic transmission of results straight from the polling units
to a central database. Chairman of Action Alliance AA Barr.
Kenneth Udeze, who read the communique reached at the end of a two-day meeting
held by the chairmen said security agents did not live up to  expectations as thugs had a field day. The forum which comprises over 60
party chairmen had in attendance during the press conference, national chairman
of NUP, Hon. Perry Opara; chairman of ACD, Alhaji Adamu Takai, amongst
political party chairmen. The chairmen noted that the two
elections were  a serious dent on the
progress made so far in enshrining free and fair elections. Barr Udeze during his briefing
stated that,  “The failure of the elections was not caused by
administrative lapses or inefficiency of the INEC; but by the actions of
security agencies who compromised the process and aided political thugs to
disrupt the entire process and cart away electoral materials.” While speaking further, Udeze,
stated that despite the thousands of security personnel deployed to Kogi and
Bayelsa for the elections, it can be stated that thugs had a field day
particularly in Kogi State, where their activities played a major role in
determining who was eventually declared to have won the election. He decried a situation where there
were no reports of any arrest  made on
polling day by the police to stop the gun wielding thugs who stormed many
polling centres. He noted, “The collation centres
were made inaccessible to duly accredited observers and agents of other
political parties except those that were allowed by the thugs; while over
35,000 policemen watched helplessly and haplessly.” He stated that while they — Chairmen
of the political parties who are the sponsors of the candidates for these
elections desire free and fair elections. “The Forum of Chairmen of
Nigeria Political Parties also concludes that the role of security agencies
particularly the Nigeria Police and the Nigeria Army during the November 16th
Governorship elections Kogi and Bayelsa states were largely reprehensible. “Men in police uniforms were
seen aiding thugs to carry ballot boxes and other materials from the centres
and abducting polling staff”, he said. He said that  the 35,200
policemen deployed to Kogi State were all either standing by watching or were
active participants guarding the thugs to carry the election materials and disrupt
a hitherto peaceful and well organized process. However, he  noted that it was disheartening to hear the
Inspector General of Police tell journalists that the Police got intelligence
about the plans of politicians to sew Police uniforms but rather than announce
what the Police did to checkmate these criminals and even arrest them for
possible prosecution, he announced that the Police made tags for further
identification of their officers. According to him, he did not
announce anything else the police did. He has since not announced the arrest of
any of the persons he referred to as fake policemen who were on rampage and
heavily dented the credibility of the election. “The Inspector General still
owes Nigerians a lot of explanation on why the 35, 000 policemen in Kogi were
helpless and could not stop these thugs alleging that security agencies
colluded with political thugs and this collusion is at the highest levels of
the security echelon.” The Forum further explained that it
is following from these analyses that it resolved and demanded  as follows: the failure noticed in the Kogi
election, the killings, maiming and destruction of property are blamed on the
security agencies. The Forum, however, urged the
Federal Government to set up an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the
over running of 35, 000 policemen by a motley crowd of political thugs. The Forum also demanded that the
Inspector general of Police be investigated to ascertain whether truly 35, 000
Policemen were deployed to Kogi State as the activities of the thugs does not
support the fact that they should have that number of Policemen, adding that
the investigation should also unravel the quantum of allowances approved for
the Police and to whom they were actually paid. In the same vein, the Forum noted
that “the blanket blame on INEC for the failure of elections is
inapplicable in this situation as Commission discharged their duties while the
security agencies failed the people of Kogi and Bayelsa. We absolve INEC and we
indict the security agencies for the failures of those two elections.” The Forum further noted that
Nigerian politicians seem not to have learnt any lessons from the happenings of
1983 which led to the collapse of the 2nd Republic in 1984. “The arbitrary use of Federal
force and the loss of confidence in the Courts led people to seek all sorts of
self-help which culminated in the overthrow of that administration by the military. “All the indices which led to the
fall of that Republic are here again staring us in the face still being
orchestrated by politicians. “ It is clear to us that Nigerian
politicians seem not to have learnt anything, in fact, Nigeria politicians have
not learnt anything from our history. The desperate quest to compromise
institutions of state must be condemned”, the forum stated.