The Nigeria Army University, Biu, has called on the Borno government to rehabilitate the road linking Abogo Largema Barracks, Biu, to the main road to ease the movement of motorists in the area. Prof. David Malgwi, Vice-Chancellor of the University, made the appeal on Saturday during the inauguration of a two kilometre road connecting the student’s Hostel to the second gate of the Barracks. He said the road would ease the movement of students, staff and to improve the socioeconomic development of the community. “I seize this opportunity to request for the urgent intervention of the Executive Governor of Borno State through the Chairman Biu Local Government as well as his counterparts of Kwaya kusar, Bayo and Hawul LGAs to graciously assist the university in the rehabilitation of the road linking this gate through Birma Jikwal and Galdimare to the main road,” he said. He observed that the road would not only assist the staff and students but bring development to the Barrack and the communities. Col. Rames Gwon (retired), Director physical planning, said the inaugurated road have undergone a lot of engineering works, which included an excavation of up to six meters deep before putting another sand and the inter-locks. He said the project, which had concrete culverts was purely sponsored by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai through direct labour. He assured the people that the road would last for up to 50 years before any maintenance work would take place. In his remarks, Ali Dikwa, LG Chairman of Biu assured of government’s readiness to rehabilitate the road as requested. He said the council will soon do something to make the road passable for vehicles.(NAN) President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday laid the foundation of the Nigerian Army University project in Biu, Borno. Represented by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, the president said the government adopted effective mechanisms to harness educational resources to address security, political, social and economic challenges facing the country. He… October 30, 2018 In "Defence" #TrackNigeria: The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) has pledged its commitment to strengthen partnership with the Army to enhance security in the nation’s highways. The Managing Director, FERMA, Mr Nuruddeen Rafindadi disclosed this when he received a team of Nigerian Army led by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.- Gen.… June 18, 2019 In "Defence" The Presidential Committee on Northeast Initiative (PCNI) said it inaugurated a committee for the return and resettlement of persons displaced by the Boko Haram insurgency in Borno. The Vice Chairman of the PCNI, Alhaji Tijjani Tumsa said in Maiduguri on Sunday that the committee was constituted to facilitate safe and… July 15, 2018 In "News"