#TrackNigeria: Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission (BYSIEC) on  Tuesday issued  certificates of return to  eight elected Local Government Area  Chairmen  and 105 Councillors in  the just concluded elections. Presenting the certificates at the commission’s Secretariat in Yenagoa, BYSIEC  acting Chairman,  Mr Remember Ogbe, said the event was historic in the democratic transition of the state. He commended the media, civil society organisations, election observers and Bayelsa people that contributed toward the success of the  elections. The acting Chairman, assured political actors that the commission would remain an impartial umpire in the discharge of its responsibilities. In his remarks, the chairman elect of Southern Ijaw local government area, Mr Nigeria Kia, commended BYSIEC for conducting  free and fair election. He expressed appreciation to the people of Southern Ijaw local government area  for coming out en masse to exercise their franchise. The chairman-elect pledged not to betray the confidence reposed in him by the people. He called on all and sundry to join him in developing the local government. According to Kia, it’s a government of consolidation, its a government that will embrace everybody, touching the lives of all communities across the local government. “I am very happy with my vice and the 17 dogged councillors will show the way to lead the local government. “Southern Ijaw is not a troublesome area, they are only waiting for the right person to lead them. “It is said in the Bible, when the righteous rule the people rejoice and I guese I am the chosen one to bring more development to the area,” he added. Speaking in the same vein, the chairman-elect of Nembe local government council, Mr Alalibo West, thanked Nembe people for electing him and pledged to bring  dividends of democracy to the local government. West reiterated that Bayelsa remainsed a PDP state and re-affirmed his commitment to deliver its local government for PDP come Nov. 16 gubernatorial election. Bayelsa council poll held  on Saturday, Aug.  10. (NAN) Twenty seven newly elected Local Government Area (LGA) Chairmen in Jigawa have received certificates of return from the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC).Alhaji Ahmad Sani, the Chairman of the Commission presented the certificates to the elected chairmen at a ceremony in Dutse on Tuesday.Sani advised them to extend hands of… July 2, 2019 In "News" By Shedrack Frank Yenagoa, March 27, 2019 (NAN) The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has presented Certificates of Return to the 23 newly-elected members of the Bayelsa House of Assembly. The certificates were presented by INEC Resident Electoral Commission (REC) in the state, Mr Monday Udoh, in Yenagoa, on Wednesday.The… March 27, 2019 In "News" Information Minister Mr. Labaran Maku has tasked the Nasarawa State Independent Electoral Commission to conduct free and fair local government election which is slated for March this year. He made the remarks in Lafia, Nasarawa State at an expanded meeting of the State Executive Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party… February 15, 2014 In "Politics"