The representatives  ofNigeria and Ghana to the ECOWAS  Parliament say  that West Africasub-regions needs the political will to fight against corruptionm. They disclosed this in useparate interviews on Friday at the end ofthe Joint Committee Delocalised meeting of the ECOWAS Parliament atOuagadougou. Rep. Sadiq Ibrahim, a member of the House of Representatives from Nigeria,said that Nigeria needed to be committed in the fight againstcorruption and look beyond sentiments in dealing with crime cases. According to him, Nigerians always associate the fight againstcorruption to discrimination against certain tribes, religions orpolitical parties, which is not supposed to be so. “If you really want to fight corruption you need the will andcommitment which unfortunately till now,  I have not seen any of suchfrom any Africa country. “We (Nigeria) are in the forefront, we are supposed to show examples to otherWest African countries but we don’t have the will to do that  unfortunately. “The most important issue about fighting corruption is that we are sosegmented in our societies by tribes, by religion, by region, by somany other things that divide us,“ he said. He said  that Nigeria had started implementing the  FightpAgainst  Corruption ECOWAS Protocol but noted p  that while the institutions wereon ground,  enforcement of some of the laws was needed. On his part, , Hon Mahama Ayariga,  a member  of Parliament from Ghana, saidthat the most important tool to fight  corruption was thepolitical will by those in power and the citizens I. “The most important thing is the political will on the part of all ofus to fight corruption both those who govern as politicalbureaucratic elite and those who are governed as ordinary citizen of thecommunity. “Who must stand up against corruption and not condone corruption?That  is the first most important thing, the will on the part ofall of us both those in government and ordinary citizens to fightcorruption.“ He nsaid that the parliament needed to assist the rightinstitutions to fight corruption and make them independent and freefrom political manipulation from those in authority. He said that ECOWAS should set up a monitoring mechanisms to checkwhat every country was doing about the protocol and the team must notbe restrained from doing its job. (NAN)