By Danlami Nmodu The Centre For Information Technology and Development,CITAD has expressed shock over what it called the brazen, shocking and worrisome attacks on Gubio and Magumeri local governments  in Borno State by Boko Haram. Executive Director of CITAD, Y.Z. Yau who made the position known Friday at a press conference also called for a change of  counter insurgency strategy in the face of recent “setbacks.” He also demanded a probe of the emerging war economy in  the north east. He said “CITAD is shocked and worried that in the last couple
of weeks attacks by Boko Haram have become more frequent, more brazen and very
destructive. We express our condolence to the families of all those who lost
their loved ones and wish speedy recovery for those who have sustained injuries
in the attacks. “These incidences raised a serious question on the efficacy of
our counter insurgency strategy. Rather than driving and squeezing out the
insurgents, it appears they are daily gaining grounds and coming more atrocious
against our people. Sharing his group’s insight into the attacks, Yau said “In
the evening of Wednesday 21st August, Boko Haram Insurgents launched
a simultaneous and coordinated attacks on both Gubio and Magumeri Local Governments
of Borno State. The attacks coming a week following an earlier one on Gubio has
witnessed massive destruction in the community. So far, fatality figures are
not yet clear. the attacks lasted till morning hours of Thursday. The destruction
and killings are serious setback to the efforts at resettling, reconstruction
and rebuilding of these communities that have been ravaged by the insurgency for
almost 10 years now. It has now pushed back many more hundred people to new displaced,
some of them for the second or third time. “Coming at the height of the farming season, it also means
that these attacks would have serious impact on food security in the region. This
can exacerbate the already humanitarian disaster that is rooted in the region. CITAD’s boss  noted  “that the insurgents took advantage of the
fact that both Gubio and Magumeri have no military presence or cover to protect
the communities from attacks by the insurgents, in other words, the communities
are an open target for these attacks. “In fact, entire
stretch between Maiduguri to Damasak, at the border with Niger republic,
spanning over 160 kilometres, had been left without military presence and may
be vulnerable to attacks. “The
remnant of military fled Gubio following the first attack on the military
brigades that was stationed there. Following the setback, the civil society group which also commended “the patriotism and gallantry of our soldiers” has  called on the government to  as a matter of urgency embark on several measures which include to: “Review and fine tune the National Counter Insurgency Strategy as to make it an effective tool to end the insurgency and secure our citizens and the territories they live. As it is the insurgents seems to be gaining strength; “Should investigate and find immediate solution to the growing
influence of the allure of war economy in which top military brass are benefiting
and becoming more interested in exploiting such an economy for their personal aggrandizement
than in saving lives and ending the conflict. It known that in some communities,
soldiers have taken over control of major economic activities such as fishing.  There are even allegations of appropriation of
cattle herds of villagers by some of the military leaders; “Government must ensure that our troops are well equipped and
supported with high quality of intelligence. Given the high handedness of the
military, they are not likely to get the best from the communities ; “Should investigate the allegations of the nonpayment of allowances
of soldiers. There have been reports about these and such situation is capable
of damping the morels of soldiers; “Investigate cases of military high handedness on community members
and abuse of rights and dignity of ordinary citizens. For instance, in March
2019, few weeks before the forceful displacements of over 5,000 people from
Jakana to IDP camps in Maiduguri, villages in Kukawa had their market burnt to
the ground by soldiers because people that were linked to the fighters were reportedly
patronizing the markets; “Compliment military strategy with efforts that will engage
communities and enhancing their community resilience to not only repel but also
make it difficult for the insurgents to launch an attack on them(and) ; “Finally, we call for the immediate restoration of military cover in the two local governments” the group said.#TrackNigeria