The People of Nando town, Anambra East Local Government Area
of Anambra, have drawn attention of the state government to possible breakdown
of peace following alleged moves by some persons to overthrow its duly elected
town union leadership. The community said this on Monday a communiqué issued after
its meeting of with the traditional ruler, Igwe Chinedu Nwakonuche with his
cabinet and chairmen the eight villages in Nando and the youth group in his
palace. They said the meeting was to address the accusations by some
people of Abube-Agu village that Mr Ignatius Aghadinuno the President-General
(P-G) of Nando, sold part of their land to herdsmen or other persons. They claimed persons were already collecting a list of names
which they intend to present to government as members of Caretaker Committee
after they must eased the duly elected Aghadinuno-led executive out of office. The monarch and the council disowned such moves, noting that
it was capable of throwing Nando into perpetual anarchy and chaos while passing
a vote of confidence on the Aghadinuno-led executive committee. In their resolutions made available to newsmen in Awka, they
said the allegations were fabrication by group of individuals from Abube-Agu
who wanted to impose their selfish will on the entire Nando community. According to the communiqué, signed by the monarch,
Igwe-In-Council and chairmen of the eight villages in Nando, the P-G was not in
any way indicted in the crisis in Abube-Agu village and therefore, innocent of
all allegations emanating there from. It said no individual could wake up and announced the
removal of its president-general and his team for his own selfish interest and
replace them with a caretaker committee made up of people whose character they
were not sure of. “That our president-general and his executive are doing very
well and we are solidly behind their leadership and are committed to their
course. “That we are neither in support of corruption nor social
vices of any kind, rather anybody with any form of grievances whatsoever
whether against the president-general or any of the union executives should
come and confront the person with such allegations,’’ it said. The communiqué said though Aghadinuno was from Abube-Agu village,
he is now citizen of the entire Nando town being the P-G, while calling on the
detractors stop cheap and false allegations of sale of land just to hang him. They warned that the crisis in Abube-Agu, one of the
villages in Nando, where the president-general comes from should not be used to
throw the community into crisis by removing their P-G who everybody voted
through the back door. “An oral petition was lodged at the Igwe’s palace against
the P-G by the Ojiana age group with an allegation that the P-G was involved in
series of illegal sale of Abube-Agu village land in connivance with some
people. “It was discovered at the end of deliberations by the
Igwe-In-Council that the PG was completely innocent of all the allegations, we
discovered that the Ojiana age group of Abube-Agu (same petitioners) were the
ones who sold a large portion of land and used the money for their personal
needs. “When they refused to render accounts of the proceeds to the
village leadership, crisis ensued between them and their village union
chairman. “In its ruling delivered on July 16, 2019, the
Igwe-In-Council exonerated the P-G who was not mentioned at all in all the
accounts by the affected parties,” the communiqué said. It added that it was later discovered that the decision so
taken on that day did not go down well with some “big men” of Abube-Agu village
and therefore they are still bent on dealing with the P-G. “We hereby, expressly pass a vote of confidence on Mr
Ignatius Aghadinuno, our -PG to continue with his leadership of Nando
community,” it said. (NAN)