 Last
week, this column wrote about the urgency of the re-arrest of Hamisu Bala, the
suspected kidnap kingpin who vanished into thin air after being freed from
police custody by soldiers along the Ibi-Wukari road in Taraba state. Fortuitously,
the police announced the capture of the runaway suspect on Tuesday, August 20,
even before the piece landed on the streets. The development is commendable,
and it is an honour to the memory of the slain members of the elite police crew
who were gruesomely killed by soldiers while transporting the arrested suspect to
Jalingo in Taraba state. The
re-arrest of Alhaji Wadume, as the suspect is popularly known, is the first piece
in a long line of actions that can restore some dignity to the police in this
matter. It will also afford the army the opportunity to redeem itself. In the
bigger picture of things, it currently seems like it was best that Wadume was
recaptured by the police, rather than the army, who, as we were made to
believe, were hot on the chase for Wadume. The next step is to find answers to
the multiple questions that arose when this matter came to light on August 6. Already,
it is being reported that Wadume is making a lot of revelations, including
disclosure of details of his escapades with Balarabe Tijani, an army captain. Tijani
appears to be central to Wadume’s apparent close relationship with security
agents in Taraba and may have been a chief beneficiary of Wadume’s largesse in
the state. Other details about Wadume’s involvement in political thuggery and
alleged deals with top government functionaries in Taraba and beyond are also
gaining media attention. News media report that Wadume is making all kinds of
confessions, except to the one thing he was arrested for – kidnapping. In July
of this year, the Taraba state House of Assembly passed a minimum of life
imprisonment and maximum of death penalty for kidnappers. Whatever
the truth is about the details of Wadume’s activities, the police have a job to
do in investigating and managing the information coming out about his case. Unlike
the articulate press release the police issued when its men where killed, the communication
from police sources have been haphazard since his re-arrest, especially with an
apparent media attack on the army still brewing in the police. This is
demonstrated by the carefully prepared video of Wadume confessing to his rescue
by soldiers, who allegedly cut through the restraints placed on him by the
original police arrest team. It is the only section of his interrogation
released by the police. While
Nigerians sympathise with the police over the death of its men, it is important
that the police is not now consumed with vendetta against the army. The police
should concentrate on extracting actionable information from Wadume that can be
used in combating the bigger issue of kidnapping that the police authorities
are supposedly investigating. To maintain credibility in the on-going
investigation, the police must also be transparent, or at least consistent, in
its release of information concerning the case. For
many Nigerians, the death of the policemen in Taraba does not wipe away decades
of public distrust in the police itself. The apparent manipulative release of
information about Wadume’s case already raises suspicion. This suspicion is
reinforced by seeming attempts by the police to brush the possible involvement
of its own officers under the rug. There have been reports of policemen who
were on Wadume’s payroll as well. Then there is that one outstanding issue, about
missing police incidence forms, which could prove police involvement at some
level, if true. On
the evidence of past police precedents, there is the possibility of Wadume’s arrest
being monetised. Possibly implicated VIPs can be exploited in exchange for
keeping the lid on their involvement.  Also, without prejudice to the police’s previously
expressed fear of the army snuffing life out of Wadume, the more connections that
are discovered between Wadume and powerful Nigerians, the greater danger to his
life, even in police custody. The
police has a long history of deaths in custody or unexplained disappearances. Countless
cases of people dying of injuries in detention litter police records. As news
reports have stated that Wadume sustained some injury in the hail of soldiers’
bullets on the police vehicle conveying him to Jalingo on August 6, there may
be a window for another police abracadabra. Even though he appeared fine in the
video released by the police, anything is possible. On
June 8, 2005, the police opened fire on five traders and a friend of theirs,
now known as the “Apo Six” at a checkpoint near Apo, Abuja, under controversial
circumstances. In the cover up that followed, which included the subsequent
killing of two survivors of the incident in police custody, Chief
Superintendent Othman Abdulsalam, the Divisional Police Officer in charge of
the area at the time, mysteriously vanished from his detention at police
headquarters. That issue remains unresolved till today. Also, the sudden,
inexplicable death of the prime suspect in the more recent Offa robbery, just
last year, is another case in point. Since there is no telling which way
Wadume’s case will go at this stage, there is a need for constant pressure to
be applied on police leadership to ensure this case is pursued diligently. The
fear expressed here comes from Wadume’s confidence before his arrest. He had
worked his way into the heart of the people of Ibi in Taraba state through acts
of generosity that increased his profile, rather than lowering it, unlike the typical
criminal. He was bold enough to seek public office, and mix with leaders of his
local community openly. Although his high profile is no proof of any strong
connection with powerful Nigerians, it does speak of a person confident of his
contacts in powerful places. If one assumes that level of confidence suggests
contacts beyond an army captain and some men in the local police division,
perhaps, one can be excused. Beyond
Wadume’s criminality or otherwise, the authorities will also have to contend
with the subtle class war that fuels kidnapping in Nigeria. In his local town,
it is reported that Wadume is seen as a hero, even after his arrest. By
stepping into government’s role to fill the void in rural empowerment in Ibi
through provision of bore holes, motorcycles etc, Wadume commanded the loyalty
of local boys. These boys may have contributed to the death of the policemen
and may have (willingly) formed part of Wadume’s kidnapping network if the
allegations against him are true. Working against a robin hood complex in the
town and environs will make the investigation all the more difficult. Beyond
the story of heroic criminals and villainous security agents, Wadume’s case exposes,
once again, the roots of the plague of criminal activity across the country in
recent times. There is a class war raging in Nigeria and the security agents appear
to be compromised on both sides. The police, army and other government authorities
have a major problem on their hands, especially when the stark social/economic
divisions exist within their ranks too. Today,
the focus should be on breaking the alleged kidnapping network of Wadume and
his possible associates through diligent investigation. Reconciling police/army
differences in this matter will go a long way, and it will involve openness and
mutual respect between the two security agencies. After Wadume, the problem of
widespread crime will still remain and it can only be conquered through honest collaboration. The
greater problem of uneven distribution of economic resources is a problem that
can only be solved when the country works for everyone. Although Nigeria has an
unenviable reputation internationally, many of our problems come from the
uneven distribution of wealth and the wide class divide. The Wadumes of this
world and the 77 suspected fraudsters of Nigerian origin arrested by the
authorities in the US recently are mere manifestations of that problem.
Perhaps, it is time we table these issues and seek lasting solutions.