The simple question is, how can any
organisation, society or nation develop when conflict is the defining
endeavour? We may choose to conveniently imagine that we can make progress with
the crucial task of party and nation building notwithstanding the fact that at
all levels, conflicts have taken over our party and societal structures. Our
leaders are in conflict with themselves – almost every known leader across the
country, from Ward to National, Local to Federal Government, politicians,
traditional, religious, civil society activists, captains of industry, trade
unionists, youths, women, persons with disabilities, etc., are taking part in
many of the conflicts in different forms and at varying degrees. In the circumstance, a sharply
focused binary has developed in our politics through which everyone gets
positioned and labelled as an actor in one conflict or the other. With such
binary almost every initiative re-enforces existing conflicts, and, in many
instances, stronger and new conflicts emerge. How is our politics responding to
this horrible reality? Are there political initiatives to resolve all the
conflicts in the party and by extension in the country? To what extent are the
initiatives facilitating the processes of reconciling our leaders at all
levels? Or, will it be possible for the different conflicts in the party and
country to be resolved without reconciling our leaders? Aren’t most of our
political conflicts’ reflections of leadership interests and the associated
disputes in the first place? Somehow, as Nigerians, we tend to
ignore these questions and imagine that we can find the formula for building
our organisations, society and nation with weak commitment to issues of
conflict resolutions and reconciliation. Partly on accounts of such denial, the
most important political responsibility of finding solutions to organisational,
societal and national challenges get sacrificed. Instead, the dominant
political psychology in the country is that politics is about contesting
elections or being appointed to political offices. Contesting election and
appointed to political offices to do what? To deepen existing political
conflicts and conquer opponents? Arising from such dominant political
psychology, our politics is, in many respects, alienated from application of
knowledge and skills to mobilise citizens in any given direction. In most
cases, it is reduced to issues of patronage to facilitate access to public
resources. This further entrenches the problem of managing conflicting
interests, expand the scope for disagreements and deepen leadership
animosities. That being the case, what are the prospects for any turn around in
a new direction coming with new hope? As a people, Nigerians have, at
different times, rose to the challenge of re-inventing national hope.
Sometimes, when the situation appears almost hopeless and our political leaders
live in denial of the realities facing the nation, new window of hope emerges
in the country. Even in the context of developments in the Fourth Republic
since 1999, thrice, we have had instances of new window opening up when things appear
hopeless. The first time was during the former President Obasanjo’s attempted
Third Term in 2006. The second time was the poor management of late President
Umaru Musa Yar’Adua’s sickness, which produced the needless refusal to transmit
the constitutionally required notice to the National Assembly empowering the
then Vice President Goodluck Jonathan to act as President of the Federal
Republic. The third was the imposed electoral hegemony of the PDP in the
country, especially at Federal levels, through serial electoral frauds in the
country. In all the three cases, initiatives,
hardly expected, opens up new rays of hope in the country. Whether with
reference to resolutions of chambers of the National Assembly to throw out
consideration for the Third Term agenda, adoption of the “doctrine of
necessity”, which resolved the President Yar’Adua’s constitutionally
orchestrated national leadership crisis, or the termination of PDP’s imposed
electoral hegemony through the introduction of card reader technology, new
window of national hope opens up at times when almost everyone seems to have
resigned. Although individual actors and
politicians may want to take credit of the emergence of new windows in the
country at different times, it is important to highlight the democratic factors
that produced all the rays of hope based on the recognition of the volatility
of the situation and the range of possibilities presented, which inadvertently
threatened the authority of Nigerian political elites. Sometimes, these political
initiatives presented themselves as contests within the ruling or governing
political parties but get blocked by leaders of the party and government. Recall the PDP reform group
initiatives around 2010, which was frustrated by leaders of the PDP and the
Yar’Adua/Jonathan Presidency. Perhaps, had the PDP leadership and the
Yar’Adua/Jonathan Presidency responded by producing some political concessions
especially around issues of internal party democracy, most of the leadership
conflicts that characterised the PDP especially between 2013 and 2014 would
have been avoided. To a considerable extent the catalysing factors that
propelled the emergence of APC around this period would have been diluted. Or
the electoral advantage, which the APC had at the point of its formation in
2013/2014 would have been weakened, which may have made the electoral victory
of 2015 almost impossible. By some coincidences, experiences in
APC today seem to be confronting us with similar challenges requiring our
leaders to produce some concessions. In virtually all our states, the party is
faced with challenges bordering on leadership disputes. Mostly triggered by
disagreements arising from conducts of party primaries before the 2019
elections, the APC is no doubt politically weaker today than it was in 2019.
The party leadership are not united and the National Working Committee (NWC),
which is saddled with the responsibility of day to day management of the party
has impliedly declared state of emergency on affairs of the party based on
which it has suspended other superior organs of the party and is discharging
their functions. In the circumstance, the political
advantages of the APC in the country are systematically being eroded. If the
situation continues, not only would the party risk losing off-season elections,
starting with Kogi and Bayelsa, but that leaders of the party could end up only
becoming sources of distractions to APC governments, especially President
Muhammadu Buhari’s Federal Government. This is because instead of going to
President Buhari with supportive proposals on how he can strengthen Federal
Government’s initiatives towards accelerating processes of addressing all our
national challenges, they will be going to him with problems of leadership disputes
and asking him to intervene to resolve them. In other words, instead of
supporting him to discharge his functions as President of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, they will be pulling him down to the position of serving as a trial
judge in the different conflicts. This is most unfair. Our APC
leaders, especially members of the NWC, need to be told the blunt truth. The
capacity of President Buhari to drive federal initiatives for peace and
national reconciliation will be weakened if the internal leadership disputes in
APC continues. The more disputes we have within the party, the more the
President will be distracted. In any case, in some states, key functionaries of
President Buhari’s government are central to the leadership disputes. How can
we expect these functionaries to discharge their functions in addressing
national challenges when they themselves are troubled? How can we lead the
process of national reconciliation, when leaders of our party need to be
reconciled? Inconvenient as this would appear,
this is the hard truth. PDP leaders, members and supporters, may want to
celebrate this. However, it is important to caution that the situation is worse
in the PDP. Just evaluate processes of candidates’ selection within the PDP,
delegates’ (s)election, etc. Perhaps, a review of events within the party
around 2019 elections may also be helpful. Any objective review would spot that
leadership unity in PDP today is at best smokescreen. Coming back to the challenge of
reconciling our leaders in APC, what is it that should be done? To reconcile
our leaders, require some sober reflection. Every leader of the party must come
to terms with the reality that either by acts of commission or omission,
directly or indirectly, everyone has erred. In one way or the other, each party
in the different leadership disputes has offended the other. This would require
that each party in all the disputes should be ready to make some compromises.
Part of the problems of all the analysis of the leadership disputes in the party
is the sophistry, which limits analysis to narration of faults of the actors.
Hardly are we projecting the sacrifices actors and players needs to make in
order to produce the kind of reconciliation Nigerians, or at least APC members,
looks forward to. What this would imply is that the
minimum sacrifice everyone should be willing to make is the capacity to forgive
each other. Just imagine for instance that former Governor Rotimi Amaechi is
able to forgive Sen. Magnus Abe in Rivers and vice versa. Or former Governor
Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara is able to forgive Sen. Kabiru Marafa. Stretching to
other states such as Imo, Ogun, Edo, etc. would similarly mean reconciling
former Governor Rochas Okorocha with Sen. Hope Uzodinma, former Governor
Ibikunle Amosun with current Governor Dapo Abiodun and current APC National
Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole with Governor Godwin Obaseki, in the same
spirit of forgiveness. With such spirit of forgiveness, sanity could be
restored among functionaries serving in the NWC such that Comrade Adams
Oshiomhole could relate with Sen. Lawal Shuaibu without the affliction the
leadership dispute in Zamfara has thrown up. Similarly, Comrade Oshiomhole and
Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir could resolve all acquired grievances arising from 2019
elections. Isn’t it possible to initiate
processes of leadership reconciliation in APC based on simple acknowledgement
of the fact that everyone is at fault in varying degrees and what is required
is for each of the parties to forgive one another? This would have the
potentials of re-inventing the APC and getting it to have all the electoral
advantages it had in 2015. Coming at the beginning of a new tenure, the party
could convert such advantages into good political capital that can translate
into national reconciliation, peace building and democratic development. Salihu Moh. Lukman  smlukman@gmail.com
c/o Progressive Governors Forum
Asokoro, Abuja