Five-times champions Nigeria on Tuesday in Abuja got their camping programme for the FIFA Under-17 World Cup finals holding in Brazil from Oct. 26 to Nov. 17. The Golden Eaglets had picked a ticket to the competition after finishing among the top four teams at the Africa Under-17 Cup of Nations in Tanzania in April. “Head Coach Manu Garba has called up 52 players who were expected to arrive in Abuja on Tuesday (Aug. 13),” Ademola Olajire, the Director of Communications at Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), announced in a statement on Tuesday. Garba was head coach of the Nigerian squad which won Nigeria’s fourth title in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in 2013. The Golden Eaglets also triumphed at the 1985, 1993, 2007 and 2015 championships in China, Japan, Korea Republic and Chile respectively. THE FULL LIST Goalkeepers: Sunday Steven, Suleiman Shuaibu, Joseph Oluwabusola, Zubair Suleiman, Moses Aluko, Anthony Okoronkwo Defenders: Etim Charles, Ogaga Oduko, Ferdinand Clement, David Akulo, Shedrack Tanko, Mayowa Abayomi, Kelvin Agho, Dahiru Yusuf, Adeniyi Timilehin, Ismaila Salaudeen, Usman Mohammed, Emeka Egbu Midfielders: Samson Tijani, Alfred Olaniyan, Ibrahim Jabaar, Fawaz Abdullahi, Shuaibu Abdulrazak, Peter Agba, Muyideen Oyindamola, Suleiman Lawal, Longbak Shak, Damilola Adeyeye, Ajir Sesugh, Gotee Ntignee Forwards: Akinkunmi Amoo, Olakunle Olusegun, Wisdom Ubani, Divine Nwachukwu, Mubarak Gata, Adrien Akande, Etim Ubi, Haruna Lawal, Egesionu Suporu, Sunusi Ibrahim Samson Komolafe, Ismail Ayodele, Ogunkoya Paul, Iniobong Okon, Opeyemi Qudus, Tobi Adeleke, Oluebube Oguduba, Usman Abba, Odeh Emeka, Gideon Asuquo, Bashar Olatunji, Mohammed(NAN) The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday in Abuja formally released the names of coaching crews of five national teams. The federation, in a statement by its Communications Department, however said the development did not relate to three other national teams. These three are the senior men’s team, the Super… February 13, 2018 In "Sport" The Senator representing Kwara Central Senatorial District, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, has congratulated Kano Pillars for emerging the winners of this year's Glo Nigeria Premier League. Saraki, in a statement by his Media Office, also praised the Nigeria Under-17 football team, the Golden Eaglets, for walloping Mexico in their first… October 21, 2013 In "Sport" Abdu Maikaba, Flying Eagles Assistant coach and coach of Plateau United on Monday, said that the the Golden Eaglets would do better in the U-17 World cup scheduled for in Brazil in September. Maikaba told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the team’s poor outing in the… April 29, 2019 In "Sport"