The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss
Mustapha, has charged the 328 Detective Superintendent Course Eight Cadets of
the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, that passed out from the
Nigerian Defence Academy, NDA, on August 31, 2019 to ensure that they take the
fight against corruption to the next level. “I urge you to see your graduation not as a jamboree, but
as a call for service delivery to eradicate corruption in Nigeria, in line with
the mandate of the EFCC,” he said. Representing President Muhammadu Buhari as the Reviewing Officer
at the Passing-Out-Parade, POP, which held at the NDA Parade Ground, Ribadu
Campus, Kaduna, Mustapha, who expressed delight by “the conscientious
decision of these young men and women to help our beloved nation to tackle
corruption”, stressed that corruption was “a malignant cancer that
has blighted our development efforts over the years”. He said: “I am thrilled by the prospects which you bring to
the corruption fight and my charge to you today, is to live by the values of
discipline, integrity, selflessness, patriotism  and professionalism,
which the NDA and the EFCC are known for.” He noted that the administration of President Buhari has an
unalloyed political will to fight corruption to a standstill in Nigeria and has
put in place measures to ensure victory. He urged the young men and women to make their 12 months of
training, which began on August 13, 2018 to count by “sacrificing your
youth to fight corruption”. Talking about a corrupt-free Nigeria, he said, might be like a
wildest dream, “however, with a mixture of political will that the Buhari
administration has shown and the courage of the EFCC under Ibrahim Magu it is
possible to have a society where the corrupt are reduced to endangered
species”. He said: “We are counting on you to apply all you have
learnt during the training and it is my hope the you will dedicate your life to
protecting the commonwealth of this great country from those who have eroded
the nation’s resources and denied the majority of Nigerians the benefit that
should come to them.” According to him, the POP “fitted perfectly with the next
agenda of President Buhari, which has made significant progress with the
implementation of the Treasury Single Account, TSA, which has helped block
leakages, and the Whistle-Blower Policy to facilitate the recovery of stolen
funds”. “The priority going forward is to consolidate on the gains
of the past years, and therefore need you as anti-corruption combatants to the
next level,” he said. He gave assurance that the administration of President Buhari
“will create the right environment for anti-graft agencies to carry out
their mandate without hindrance” and reiterated the president’s promise
not to interfere in the activities of the EFCC and other anti-graft
agencies. “Wherever you find corruption go ahead and do your job, the
way you have been taught,” he said. “My government will continue to support the EFCC,” he
said, adding that with the commissioning of the EFCC Head Office Complex last
year, with the assurance that “more will be done to motivate and insulate
the officers from corruption influencers”. He used the opportunity to call on all Nigerians to support the
fight against corruption, stressing the corruption fight “calls for total
vigilance”. The parade, which was the climax of the series of trainings,
including military drills, physical fitness training, first aid, along with
EFCC trainings in Legal Studies, General Studies, Financial Studies, and
Operations Studies, witnessed march-past in slow time and quick time to the
delight of dignitaries. For this year’s POP, five awards were up for grabs and they went
to: N. Ingawa, who won the Presidential Award for Best Overall Student; J.S.
Ogbonkwu, who won the Chief of Defence Staff Award as 2nd Best Cadet; A. Gabdo,
who won the EFCC Chairman’s Award and emerged 3rd Best Cadet; W.I. Imam, who
won the NDA Commandant’s best overall cadet in military subjects; and A. Usman,
who won the EFCC Chairman’s Award for Command and Leadership. Nasir El-Rufai, governor of Kaduna State, and chief host, who
was among dignitaries who graced the epoch-making event gave cash prizes of
N250,000 to all the awardees. Ibrahim Magu, acting EFCC Chairman and host of the event noted
that the anti-corruption agency will remain resolute in championing the agenda
of President Buhari to eradicate corruption in Nigeria.