The Borno Government says it will establish a Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovations to fast track research for sustainable social and economic development of the state. Gov. Babagana Zulum disclosed this when the management of the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) paid him a Sallah visit on Tuesday in Maiduguri. Zulum said that the ministry would soon commence operation to support and provide grants to researchers who were unable to carry out studies due to lack of funds. He noted that one of the commissioner designate would be assigned to head the new ministry. “As an academics, I am very aware of the value of research, the ministry will be saddled with the responsibilities to conduct research and provide grants to university dons. “Those, who are willing to contribute their quota to the development of the society but they do not have the financial wherewithal to do so. “One of our adversaries is the gap between the industry and the education sector; weak linkage between our education system and industry, weak linkage between our graduates and the labour market. “This can only be bridged by providing relevant and enabling technological environment inclusive of good laboratories and workshop to train our students,” Zulum said. The governor said that the state government would equally establish faculties of science and environment at the Borno State University, adding that the institution is expected to commence operation in September. He said that the state university would collaborate with UNIMAID in areas of capacity building to facilitate its smooth take off. The governor pledged continuing support to the UNIMAID to create an enabling teaching and learning environment. Earlier, Prof. Mohammad Alkali, the Acting Vice Chancellor of UNIMAID, commended Zulum over his support to the university. Alkali noted that the state government was currently constructing a 20 housing units and also addressing the water scarcity and road projects in the school. He further sought for intervention in the areas of sabbatical and infrastructural development to enhance operations in the school. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Zulum, a professor of Irrigation Engineering, was a former lecturer at the university. Zulum also served as the Rector of the Ramat Polytechnic, Maiduguri, before his appointment as the Commissioner for Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Resettlement (RRR), a post he held till he was elected governor of the state. (NAN)