National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has blamed the Nigerian media for the alleged rift between himself and Gov. Godwin Obaseki, describing his successor as his brother. Oshiomhole spoke when he received Obaseki, who led members of his cabinet to celebrate the Eid-el-Kabir festival with his former boss, at his Iyamoh residence in Estako West Local Government Government Area of Edo. Speaking to journalists after a closed-door meeting which lasted for about an hour, Oshiomhole said the meeting was not unusual as he was in constant touch with  Obaseki. According to Oshiomhole, “from time to time, we have always been meeting. It is not an unusual visit, the meeting afforded me the opportunity to meet with my brother and with people I have worked with.” Oshiomhole described the seeming rift as the unfortunate creation of people with personal interest and the media, whom he  said liked creating factions for their own gain. On his part, Obaseki noted that the visit to his predecessor was not unusual, saying that he decided to celebrate Sallah with his former boss. He said the visit was to celebrate Edo leaders just as the former APC national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, was celebrated by the state earlier in the day. “There is nothing unusual about this meeting; today is Sallah and we have just finished celebrating with the former APC national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun in Benin City. “And we decided to come here to celebrate Sallah with my predecessor,” the governor said. He added that people who think there was a rift between him and his predecessor should stop thinking like that.( NAN) #TrackNigeria - As I watched the video again on Sunday, it felt like a recording from another age, yet it was taped only five years ago. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was wearing a smart deep-blue suit and red tie over a white shirt. He has shed his trademark brown khaki top… June 27, 2019 In "Azu Ishiekwene" #TrackNigeria - A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Mr. Charles Idahosa, has warned against attempts to push Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, out of the APC, a plot he said will spell doom for the party in the state. Idahosa gave the warning while… July 15, 2019 In "Featured" #TrackNigeria: Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo said on Wednesday there was no rift between him and his predecessor, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, who is the current National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Obaseki made the clarification at the Benin Airport upon his arrival in the state following a one-month… May 1, 2019 In "News"