First Lady Aisha Buhari has described the former national chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, as a complete gentleman and a peace maker. She made this known in her Instagram handle on Saturday in a message to celebrate the former APC chairman on his 80th birthday anniversary. The first lady also described the celebrant as a unifying factor who worked tirelessly for the development of his fatherland. She therefore wished him long life in good health and prosperity. The message reads: ”Happy Birthday, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, former National Chairman of APC. ”A complete gentleman, a peace maker and a unifying factor of our time. ”Wishing you many years ahead in good health and prosperity.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Chairman, Organising Committee of the event, Mr Ray Morphy, said the committee plans to mark Odigie-Oyegun’s birthday in Abuja on Aug. 17. Morphy said that eminent Nigerians, including top APC chieftains, are expected at the event. He urged young Nigerians to emulate the leadership qualities and values demonstrated by Odigie-Oyegun when he served as a Permanent Secretary, governor of Edo and National Chairman of APC. “Chief Odigie-Oyegun has kept his name clean right and fair over the years. ”Even as he left office as National Chairman of the APC, you noticed that he has never engaged in any battle with anybody in the party.” (NAN) Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau has described the pioneer National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, as an exceptional politician and a role model. Lalong, in a statement on Monday in Jos, said that Odigie-Oyegun, who clocked 80 years on Sunday, had always lived for others.… August 12, 2019 In "Project" President Muhammadu Buhari, state governors, diplomats and other eminent Nigerians, have indicated interest to attend the 80th birthday of the former National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. The Chairman,  Organising Committee of the event, Mr Ray Morphy, said this in Abuja on Friday at a news… August 16, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has joined other APC chieftains in congratulating Chief John Odigie-Oyegun on his 80th birthday, describing the octogenarian as a true example of a patriot and democrat. The president’s spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina, in a statement in Abuja on Sunday, said that Buhari congratulated Odigie-Oyegun on the milestone.… August 11, 2019 In "News"