Justice Iniekenimi
N. Oweibo of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, on Thursday,
August 15, 2019, granted bail to Abdullahi Babalele, a son-in-law to a former
Vice President and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate in
the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, in the sum of N20m. Babalele was
arraigned on Wednesday, August 14, 2019 on a two-count charge bordering on
money laundering to the tune of $140, 000. The defendant
allegedly persuaded one Bashir Mohammed to make a cash payment of the sum of
$140,000 without going through any financial institution, an offence contrary
to Section 18(c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2100 as amended and
punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act. The defendant
pleaded not guilty to the charge when it was read to him. During the
proceedings yesterday, Babalele’s lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, told the court
that his client had filed an application for bail and served same on the
prosecution. However, the
prosecution counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, in his response, told the court that he
was served with the application yesterday morning and that he would need time
to respond to it. Consequently, Justice
Oweibo, after listening to both parties, adjourned to Thursday, August 15, 2019
(today) for hearing of the bail application. During today’s
proceedings, counsel to the defendant, Mike Ozekhome SAN, filed a motion for
bail on behalf his client, seeking the order of the court to grant his client
bail on self-recognition. Ozekhome also
argued that the prosecution ought not to have opposed the bail application
because the defendant was granted an administrative bail by the EFCC, after his
arrest and detention in the EFCC custody. Ozekhome further
told the court that the defendant had never jumped the administrative bail
granted him by the EFCC since March, 2019, adding that the defendant would be
willing to stand his trial. The defence
counsel, therefore, urged the court to grant his client bail and also prayed
the court to release his client to him while perfecting his bail conditions “in
the circumstance that he is granted bail.” In his response, the prosecution
counsel, Usman Buhari, filed a counter-affidavit to the application, urging the
court not to grant the defendant bail. Buhari stated that
there were obvious tendencies that the defendant would interfere with the
prosecution witnesses, adding that some of the prosecution witnesses had worked
under the defendant. Buhari, therefore, urged the court not to grant the
defendant bail in the “interest of justice and to allow the prosecution to
prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.” He also told the
court that the Law does not allow the release of a defendant to his or her
lawyer in any circumstance. In his ruling,
Justice Oweibo granted the defendant bail in the sum of N20m (Twenty Million
Naira), with one surety in like sum. The surety must be
resident in Lagos and must be a property owner in Lagos. The property as well
as the address of the surety must be verified by the court. The Judge who
further directed that the defendant’s passport must be deposited with the
court’s Registrar, remanded Babalele in the EFCC custody pending the perfection
of his bail conditions. Also, during
today’s sitting, Justice Oweibo granted both Uyiekpen Giwa-Osagie, a lawyer to
Atiku, and his son, Erhunse Giwa-Osagie, bail in the sum of N20m each. Both defendants
were also arraigned yesterday on a three-count charge bordering on money
laundering to the tune of $2,000,000. The defendants
pleaded not guilty to the charge preferred against them by the Commission. Counsel to the
first defendant, Ahmed Raji, SAN, as well as counsel to the second defendant,
Quarkers Norrison, SAN, filed applications for bail for their clients and also
urged the court to grant them bail. Ruling on the
applications today, Justice Oweibo granted bail to the defendants in the sum of
N20m each, with one surety in like sum. The sureties must be resident in Lagos
and must be property owners in Lagos. The properties and
addresses of the sureties must be verified by the court, while the passports of
the defendants must be deposited with the court’s Registrar. The defendants were
released to their counsel for 14 days, pending the perfection of their bail
conditions. Justice Oweibo also
ordered the defendants to be remanded in prison, if they failed to perfect
their bail conditions at the expiration of the 14 days. The cases were
adjourned to October 8, 2019 for commencement of trial.