By Tina George, Minna #TrackNigeria: The National Examinations Council (NECO) has blacklisted 18 supervisors involved in various malpractice offences in the just concluded June/July Senior Secondary School Examinations (SSCE). The supervisors were said be involved in various offences ranging from poor supervision, aiding and abetting and connivance with non-candidates to write answers on chalkboard. The Acting Registrar/Chief Executive of NECO, Mallam Abubakar Mohammed Gana while announcing the release of the result to newsmen at the NECO Headquarters in Minna lamented the high rate of malpractice cases in the 2019 SSCE examination. He also said that three schools in Kastina, Kebbi and Oyo states have been recommended for de-recognition for two years for their alleged involvement in mass cheating and being special centers. Gana however said that the examination body is open to hear the plea of the affected schools stating that a committee has been set up to listen to whatever defence they have. He said that 40,630 representing 3.53 per cent of the candidates who sat for the examination were involved in various forms of  malpractice, saying, “Whereas 20,181 cases were recorded in 2018”. The Registrar explained that the reason for the higher figure of malpractice cases in 2019 is not unconnected with the deployment of the new biometric verification device used in the 2019 SSCE and the improved monitoring by staff and external monitors. Giving an analysis of the performance of the candidates, Gana said 146 blind students were among the 1,151,016 candidates that sat for the 2019 June/July SSCE examination. He said that 984,152 representing 85.50 per cent of the candidates made Credit and above in English language while 954,399 representing 83.03 per cent of candidates made Credit and above in Mathematics. The Registrar further said that 829,787 representing 71.59 per cent of the candidates made five credits and above including English language and Mathematics while 1,041,986 representing 89.90 per cent had five Credits and above, irrespective of English language and Mathematics. He said that NECO recently have increased its level of efficiency in the conduct of its examination which have increased the result of the achievements made in the council. The Registrar also debunked an online publication that encouraged candidates to buy scratch cards to assess their results by logging onto a website different from NECO’s website. He added that  “NECO has abolished the use of card in all its operations as everything is now 100 per cent online” adding that the website of NECO remains the same and has not changed.”