The Voice of Nigeria, the mass
communication apparatus dedicated to dissemination of information from the
country to the outside world, has applauded the improved global reputation of
the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) which was accentuated with
the appointment of Mallam Mele Kyari as the Group Managing Director. Leading a top level management
delegation to the NNPC Towers on Thursday, Osita Okechuku, Director General of
the agency, noted that the elevation of Mallam Kyari to the position of GMD of
NNPC has helped to place a seal of credibility on the operations and activities
of the corporation. The VON DG said that based on its
varied interaction with global radio audiences, the agency was in a position to
feel the pulse and changing perception about the corporation within the last
four years, noting that VON was ready to partner with the NNPC to consolidate
this remarkable improvement. Mr. Okechukwu proposed the
creation of a Joint Intervention Partnership with the NNPC, a package which he
explained would help both organization seek a workable and mutually beneficial
alliance for the common good of the larger population. Welcoming the VON delegation to
the NNPC Towers, Mallam Kyari said the NNPC was favourably disposed to
innovative ideas and solutions that would help in effective execution of its
mandate of superintending over the nation’s vast hydrocarbon resources for the
benefit of all Nigerians and stakeholders. While acknowledging the strategic
role of VON in the Federal Government’s external information dissemination
matrix, Mallam Kyari assured that the corporation would continue to work
towards steady improvement of its transparency and accountability quotient. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has expressed its desire to extend Nigeria’s trade relations with Turkey beyond crude oil. Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this during a courtesy visit by the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey to Nigeria, His Excellency Melih Uluren, at the… August 2, 2019 In "Project" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has expressed its readiness to continuously work with the Nigerian Governors' Forum (NGF) in order to grow crude oil production, renewable energy and generate more revenue for the country. A release today in Abuja by the corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division,… July 10, 2019 In "Business" The Chairman and Managing Director of ExxonMobil companies in Nigeria, Mr. Paul McGrath, has expressed optimism on the future of the business relationship between his company and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) under the Mallam Mele Kyari-led Management team. Mr. McGrath, during a courtesy visit to the NNPC GMD… August 8, 2019 In "Business"