 By
Ibrahim Mohammed The
Director, Centre for China Studies (CCS), Mr. Charles Onunaiju has called on
Nigeria’s leader, President Muhammadu Buhari to continue with the
‘neighbourhood diplomacy’ which he started during the first term of his
administration. Onunaiju,
who was speaking against the backdrop of Buhari’s new cabinet whose portfolios
were announced on Wednesday, noted that ‘‘to
be very honest Buhari started very well by focusing on what I called
neighbourhood diplomacy, especially in addressing the issues of security which
was a big challenge at the time he came into office,’’ on My 29, 2015. According
to him, Buhari’s visit to Chad, Cameroun and Niger shortly after he came into
office was highly thoughtful, adding  that ‘‘these are critical countries
that are very important to Nigeria’s long term security, especial in addressing
the Boko Haram insurgency in the country’s north-east region. ‘‘I
think that initial efforts at engaging countries sharing borders with Nigeria
paid-off. The joint military campaign against the insurgency lead to a
significant reduction in the activities of the group,’’ he also pointed out
that ‘‘the joint military operations are all outcomes of that important and
crucial face of his (Buhari) neighbourhood diplomacy. ‘‘Although,
I do not know how sustained the dialogue, engagements with the neighbours have
been, the resurgence of Boko Haram activities which has led to Nigerians
fleeing into those countries as refugees in my view could be the consequences
of lack of sustainability. Because, diplomacy is not a one-off thing, it is not
necessarily at the highest level, the highest level is at the point of kick-off
to set the stage for several engagements at lower levels. ‘‘I
do not know how much of those early engagements at the highest levels were
replicated at several other levels. The process of high level engagement has to
be driven and Nigeria lacks the tools to follow up. ‘‘It
is not the glees, glamour and razzmatazz of those very visible engagements that
turns the situation around. It is the practical engagements at several other
levels that gives it the substance it deserves,’’ Mr. Charles Onunaiju The
CCS based in Nigeria’s capital Abuja, is an independent research think-tank
that focuses on China’s rise and important engagements with the African
continent. It was opened on March 24, 2015 by former Chinese envoy to the West
African country over 200 million people according to the United Nations
estimates, Ambassador Gu Xiaojie.