#TrackNigeria: The Police Command in Enugu State has arrested two suspected armed robbery and car snatching syndicates within Enugu metropolis. A statement by the Command’s spokesperson, SP Ebere Amaraizu, on Wednesday disclosed that the two syndicates were arrested in Enugu on Aug. 12. Amaraizu said that the arrest was achieved through intelligence gathering by the operatives of the Anti-Cult Squad of the Command. He identified the suspects as Emeka Itua, an ex-prisoner that claimed to hail from Edo State and Ede Ifunanya, alias Anyara, from Nara community in Nkanu East Local Government Area of the state. He said that Itua had been snatching many cars with his gang members and that they usually snatch cars and take to their buyer in Anambra State. “Itua confessed that they specialised in snatching Toyota Camry cars and they snatch these cars at gun point. “He further revealed that they usually monitor would-be victims of Toyota Camry cars in streets of Enugu and follow them to the point of parking. “We usually get a tricycle and engage him on drop; then move and patrol round in search of any victim to be attacked,’’ he said. Amaraizu further said that the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Sulaiman Balarabe, had directed for a full scale investigation; while the suspects had been helping police operatives in their investigation. (NAN) The Enugu State Police Command says it has arrested a robbery suspect, Jude Agha, after tracking him for two weeks through intelligence information in the state metropolis. The command’s spokesperson, SP Ebere Amaraizu, made the disclosure in a statement he issued in Enugu on Wednesday. He said that police operatives… January 24, 2018 In "Crime & Police" By Stanley Nwanosike #TrackNigeria: The Enugu Police Command, on Friday paraded 12 suspects for alleged armed robbery at various locations within two weeks in the state. Briefing newsmen at the Police Headquarters, Enugu, while parading the suspects, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Balarabe Suleiman, said the suspects were arrested… March 1, 2019 In "Crime & Police" The police in Enugu have arrested four suspected  armed robbers  and recovered one locally-made gun. The also recovered a plastic fabricated gun, a Toyota Bus, two generating sets amongst other valuables from the suspects. The Enugu State Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Ebere Amaraizu, made this known  in a… November 11, 2018 In "Crime & Police"