Benue state governor, Mr Samuel Ortom on Thursday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the renaming of Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, to Joseph Sarwuan Tarka University, Makurdi. Ortom gave the commendation while addressing journalists at the Benue Peoples House, Makurdi. The governor also lauded the National Assembly for passing the bill which sought to effect the institution’s name change. He specifically commended the member representing Gboko/Tarka Federal Constiturncy, Rt. Hon. John Dyegh, for sponsoring the bill. “We appreciate Rt. Hon. John Dyegh for reminding the entire nation and the president that there is the need to immortalise our father and hero of this land,’’ he said. Ortom said Senator J.S. Tarka left indelible footprints on the political and economic landscape of the country and deserved the honour as had been done to other notable sons and daughters of the nation. “Today, the likes of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sadauna of Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello and several other heroes of our land, have been immortalised and so we appreciate Mr President for honouring our great son,’’ he said. He also commended Buhari for banning the importation of agricultural produce, stressing that the decision would benefit farmers across the country as returns on investments in agriculture would also increase. (NAN) Joseph Tarka lived for only 48 years. His life and times were eventful. He defined his eon with the magnitude of his individuality and politics. He produced and offered to the Benue people a visionary, pragmatic, inspiring and focused leadership. Since his demise on March 30, 1980, no Benue politician… August 9, 2019 In "Columns" By Philip Dzeremo #TrackNigeria: Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has taken an early lead in the Saturday’s presidential poll results in 7 of 11 Local Government Areas of Benue already announced. On Monday in Makurdi the results, which are still being collated… February 25, 2019 In "Politics" The Vice Chairman North, All Progressive Congress (APC) Presidential Council, Sen. George Akume has advised Tiv people to vote President Mohammadu Buhari in the forthcoming presidential elections.Akume, a former Senate Minority Leader and two time governor of Benue, gave the advised on Sunday at Wannune, Tarka Local Government during the… December 30, 2018 In "Politics"