…As Indian govt gives him ultimatum to return to NigeriaFacts have just emerged that the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky has refused to receive treatment from unknown doctors that had been provided to treat him in India, different from those billed and booked to treat him before his departure from Nigeria. A member of the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC), who spoke to PRNigeria via an audio tape said the attitude of Indian government has portrayed El-Zakzaky as a common criminal when no court in Nigeria has convicted him. The source said that the Indian government has given El-zakzaky ultimatum to leave Indian soil if he refuses to receive treatment from unknown doctors that have been provided to treat him.“I just received a very worrying news from the Indian government that ultimatum has been given to the Leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) to leave India if he does not agree to the Doctors specified to treat him. “From the way that he is being treated is extremely bad”, the IHRC representative said. “Under the current situation, it seems he has no choice other than to go back to Nigeria. He has been given some hours to respond to their ultimatum. “This is to me is totally, utterly unacceptable by any standard, either international standards or Indian standards or that of humanity”, the IHRC chief said. He further noted that “This is a man that has not been found guilty of anything to the extent that in his own country, the highest court has granted him permission that he should be treated. “The Indian government by their behavior depicts Sheikh Elzakzaky as a common criminal.  This is really outrageous and those who stand for justice should please respond.” By PRNigeria #TrackNigeria In what seems like Buhari's disregard for El-Rufai’s new conditions after the Kaduna High Court granted El-Zakzaky and wife leave to travel to India for medical treatment, the leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), this evening was flown out. High-level indications have emerged that President Muhammadu Buhari… August 12, 2019 In "Featured" By Aisha Gambo The High Court in Kaduna on Tuesday ordered the Kaduna State Government to avail the leader of Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), Ibrahim El-zakzaky and his wife, Zinat access to medical care. Justice Gideon Kurada gave the order at the resumed sitting on the case agaist the… January 22, 2019 In "News" Malam Ibrahim El-Zakzaky is facing criminal trial before the Kaduna High Court on charges filed in April 2018. The Kaduna State Government is prosecuting Malam Ibrahim El-Zakzaky on an eight-count charge, including culpable homicide punishable with death. He and his wife are the first and second defendants in The State… August 7, 2019 In "Project"