#TrackNigeria– The immediate past governor of Lagos State, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, FCA, has cleared the air over a statement attributed to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) alleging that it had frozen certain accounts linked to him. The
former governor said no account of his contained N9.9bn let alone being frozen
by the EFCC. He said in the spirit of Sallah and having served Lagos State well
with utmost dedication and integrity, his record is very clear and his mind
joyful for the opportunity to have served the State diligently. In a
statement released on his behalf on Friday by his media aide, Habib Aruna,
Ambode said while he did not intend to join issues with the anti-corruption
agency at this time especially as there has been no communication between him
and the commission on this issue, it is pertinent to clarify what he believed
was a misleading import of the press statement on Tuesday. According
to the former governor, the accounts in question that were frozen by the
Federal High Court belong to the Lagos State Government and not him or any
individual.  “Those accounts were opened in the course of normal
operations by the Lagos State Government for its administrative purposes and
not for the former Governor’s personal transactions as was being wrongly
insinuated and have been operated to ensure smooth operations of government
activities by previous and present administrations. The former Governor was not
and will never be involved in any unauthorized use of government property and
resources. “We
strongly believe that after four demanding years as Chief Executive of Lagos
State, Mr. Ambode is entitled to some deserved rest with his family and loved
ones without the unwarranted attacks on his well-earned reputation.” The
statement added that the former Governor believes that at this critical time in
our polity, all hands must be on deck to support “our great Party the All
Progressives Congress (APC) both at the State and national levels in order to
continue to deliver the dividends of democracy to Lagosians and Nigerians
respectively.” The
former governor, therefore, re-assured Nigerians that he remains committed to
the ideals of President Muhammadu Buhari and the founding fathers of the party
for the attainment of the next level for Nigeria. Former
Governor Ambode also extended warm Sallah greetings to President Buhari and his
deputy, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the
entire leadership of APC as well as every Lagosian, praying that the lessons of
Sallah will serve as a catalyst for the much-needed bond and spirit of
brotherliness among all and sundry in our great country.