The Federal Government has assured
Nigerians that there is no imminent threat to Nigeria’s assets in spite the
recent award of 9.6 billion dollars judgment debt by a UK court over a botched
contract. The Minister of Information and
Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed gave the assurance on Tuesday in Abuja at a news
conference on the court ruling authorising Process and Industrial Developments
Ltd. (P&ID) to seize 9.6 billion dollars in Nigerian assets. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the briefing was jointly addressed by the Attorney-General of the
Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN). Also at the briefing were the
Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed and the
Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele. Mohammed noted that contrary to
reports in certain quarters, the country is not about to lose any of its assets
to P&ID. “In the first instance, the
enforcement of the award cannot even commence now because the Judge in the UK
court ordered that P&ID cannot enforce the judgment against Nigeria until
after the court resumes from its current vacation. “What this means is that enforcement
action cannot begin until further hearing on the matter, which will take place
on a date to be determined by the court upon its resumption. “The Federal Government, therefore,
wishes to use this opportunity to assure Nigerians that there is no immediate
threat to Nigeria’s assets as has been wrongly interpreted by a section of the
media. “Nigerians should be assured that
the Federal Government is taking all necessary steps to appeal the decision of
the UK Court. “The government will seek for a Stay
of Execution of the decision, to defend its rights and to protect the assets of
the people,’’ he said. The minister assured that the
Federal Government would avail itself of all defence customarily afforded to
sovereign states under the United Kingdom Sovereign Immunity Act to stave off
any enforcement of the award. He, therefore, appealed to the sense
of patriotism of the media in the reportage of the sensitive matter. “It is capable of threatening the
very existence of the country, especially as some media outfits have clearly
thrown overboard objectivity and patriotism in their very biased reporting of
this matter,’’ he said. Mohammed said experts’ analysis of
the damages awarded by the court, showed that “it was clearly unreasonable,
unjustifiable and manifestly excessive and exorbitant. “The damages over-compensated
P&ID on a frankly gargantuan scale and imposed a punitive award on
Nigeria.’’ Narrating the issues that led to the
judgment, the minister said it was fallout of the contract purportedly entered
into in 2010 between the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and P&ID “In a 20-year Gas Supply Processing
Agreement (GSPA) purportedly entered into with the P&ID in 2010, the
company never performed as agreed. “With the contract having suffered a
setback, the case went to arbitration. P&ID’s claim in the arbitration
proceedings was mainly for the loss of profit for the 20-year term of the GSPA. “In an interim award, the
Arbitration Tribunal ruled that Nigeria has breached the contract. “Though Nigeria successfully applied
to have that award set aside by the Federal High Court in Lagos, the Tribunal
ignored this decision. “Consequently, on January 31, 2017,
the Tribunal rendered its final award against the Ministry of Petroleum
Resources in the sum of 6.597 billion dollars. “This was in addition to pre-award
interest at the rate of seven per cent per annum, effective from March, 20 2013
and post-award interest at the same rate from the date of the award. “This interest increased the size of
the award to 9.6 billion dollars,’’ he said. The minister said that after the
arbitration award in 2017, Nigeria made several attempts to negotiate the award
and resolve the whole issue amicably with P&ID but to no avail. He said following an enforcement
proceedings instituted simultaneously by the company in the UK and the U.S. the
government engaged the services of the U.S. law firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost,
Colt & Mosle LLP. The minister also reiterated
government’s position on the underhanded manner in which the contract was
negotiated and signed. He said indications were that the
whole process was carried out by some vested interests in the past
administration.
Mohammed said the saboteurs colluded with their local and international
conspirators to inflict grave economic injury on Nigeria and its people. He said following President
Muhammadu Buhari’s directive, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
(EFCC) was conducting investigations into the company and the contract
agreement. The minister said the investigation
was being conducted by EFCC in conjunction with the National Intelligence
Agency (NIA) and the Inspector-General of Police (IGP). (NAN)