Indonesian Ambassador to Nigeria,
AVM (Rtd)  Dr. H. Usra Hendra Harahap , his spouse, Ibu Hj. Umrotien
Zunaeny Harahap celebrated  Eid Adha in Rugga Fulani village, Lower Usuman
Dam in the outskirts of Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja Nigeria. The Ambassador who was in company of
his spouse and entire embassy staff said he decided to celebrate the Eid Adha in
the Fulani community to show love  and compassion in the spirit of the
season. “Eid Adha is a period to show love
,care  and brotherhood for humanity especially the less privileged among
us. “ “Myself, my wife and entire embassy
staff are delighted to be with the fulani tribe in their community. “ The Ambassador who slaughtered a
cow, also  shared and donated  several food  items to  both adult and children. In his remarks, Ardo Musa Ibrahim
expressed gratitude on behalf of Rugga Fulani Community of Lower Usman Dam. He
said they were overwhelmed by the visit and time spent with them. “ We thank the Ambassador , his wife
and the entire embassy staff for  visiting us and sharing  meat, rice
and Indomie for us.” The Community was agog throughout
the period the Ambassador and embassy Staff spent as men, women and children
gathered to celebrate with the visitors. Bishop Emmanuel Badejo of the Catholic  Diocese of Oyo has felicitated with Muslims on the occasion of Eid el-Kabir and called for peaceful coexistence between Muslims and  Christians . Eid-el-Kabir or Eid al-Adha  as some call it, is one of the most important feasts in Islam. Badejo in a statement… August 11, 2019 In "News" All Progressives Congress (APC) National Stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has congratulated all Muslim faithful across the country and the world on the occasion of the celebration of Eid ul-Adha, urging Nigerians to be ready to make sacrifice for the development of the country in the spirit of the festival. The… August 10, 2019 In "News" The National Association of Women Journalists (NAWOJ), Kebbi chapter, on Sunday urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, love and tolerance for the progress of the country. The Chairperson of the association, Mrs Laiatu  Bamaiyi, gave the advice in Birnin Kebbi while she felicitating with Muslims on the celebration… August 11, 2019 In "Politics"