The Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Lagos State has appointed Mr Olufemi Olaniyi, popularly known as Ferrari, as its acting Chairman. The party’s state Publicity Secretary, Lekan Adebiyi, said in a statement issued on Friday in Lagos that the appointment was sequel to the suspension of the chairman, Chief Tunde Onakoya, for alleged anti-party activities. He said that Olaniyi’s appointment was ratified at an appraisal meeting held by the new executive members, party leaders and elders from the South-West, local government chairmen and other party faithful. Adebiyi said that the party also appointed him as the new publicity secretary at the meeting held at Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. He said that the acting chairman, in his remarks, charged all party leaders to contribute their quota towards rebuilding the party in the state. He quoted Olaniyi as pledging to ensure reconciliation between leaders and aggrieved members and that members should stop the blame game and accept the challenge of rebranding the party. “The party will improve on the existing structures and generate new ideas to improve efficiency and effectiveness. We shall work in synergy with our national leaders to ensure that the party attain greater heights,” he further quoted him as saying. (NAN) The Prof. Jerry Gana Presidential Campaign Team has decried an alleged bias by the leadership of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) against its principal in favour of former governor of Cross Rivers, Mr Donald Duke. The Director-General of the team, Mr Ike Neliaku, said this while addressing newsmen in Abuja… January 22, 2019 In "Politics" Leaders and critical stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State have endorsed the appointment of the current Acting Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Chris Azebamwan. The endorsement was contained in a communique issued on Sunday, August 13, 2017, after a meeting… August 17, 2017 In "Politics" (Photo:Fasehun,Credit-Punchng.com) The Unity Party of Nigeria,UPN has announced the suspension of Dr Frederick Fasehun as its national chairman.The decision was announced by a communiqué at the end of the party’s meeting in Abuja. While reading the communiqué, UPN’s National Publicity Secretary ,Mr Bari Adedeji Salau said “After considering all these… October 14, 2014 In "News"