The rising cases of kidnappings and
killings in the southern part of Nigeria, a country that has gained global
infamy as the third most terrorized in the world has once again opened a new
chapter on the controversial subject matter of the activities of killer
herdsmen. In addition to numerous victims accounts of kidnappings for ransom
the recent arrest and parading of some suspects by the Enugu state police
command in connection with several cases unfortunately led to the killing of
some Catholic priests as well as traditional rulers, reveals a consistency in demography
by perpetrators of this crime; killer herdsmen of mostly Fulani ethnicity.
Among these suspects, which includes Idris Tobe, Suleiman Balarabe, Ibrahim
Adamu, Garba Basalugu , Mohammed Luga and Mojunpan Duna was one Ibrahim Adamu
who confessed to have come to Enugu ‘’to learn the skill of cow rearing but
later joined a gang’’. Despite these obvious cases of widespread
criminality, there has been a concerted effort by certain individuals and
interest groups to obfuscate the true identity of these undesirable elements by
raising the charge of ethnic profiling Nigeria’s ethnic Fulani. The media has
been intimidated by accusations of deliberately profiling the ethnic Fulani for
crimes that are not peculiar to their demography by inventing the term ‘’killer
herdsmen’’. Unfortunately, the cry of ethnic profiling as a push back mechanism
by the concerned majority of individuals of the ethnic Fulani demography is
akin to living in denial of an undeniable existential reality of a minority
criminal elements. This manner of living in denial does not only render the
problem intractable with the unintended consequence of image burden for the
entire ethnic demography but feeds into the fulanization conspiracy theory by
perceived complacency. Described
as ‘’Le marchand de la mort est mort’’ [the death of the merchant of death] in
a premature obituary by a French newspaper in 1888, Alfred Nobel got a rare
privileged glimpse at the first rough draft of the history of his life and
times. The report emphasized ‘’Dr Alfred Nobel, who became rich by finding ways
to kill more people faster than ever before, died yesterday’’. A clear case of
mistaken identity, the death of his brother Ludvig in Cannes was widely
reported as his at the time. Swedish scientist, inventor, business man and
philanthropist whose most famous invention, the dynamite, a powerful explosive,
which revolutionized the businesses of mining, quarrying, construction and
demolition will unfortunately become very notoriously useful in the destruction
of mankind because of its extensive use in warfare. Determined not to be permanently recorded
in history as the merchant of death, Alfred Nobel, a sober and reflective
recluse of a genius, who neither married nor fathered any child, eight years
before his real death in 1896 at age 63 was enough to redirect his legacies. To
redirect the world from the destructive path of the ignorance of warfare,
Alfred will dedicate enormous energy and resources to the advancement of
knowledge for the advancement and peace of mankind. To this end, in November 1895,
Alfred signed his last will wherein 94 per cent of his wealth was set aside to
establish the Nobel Prizes in physics, medical sciences, chemistry and
literature as well as for peace to be annually awarded to deserving individuals
without prejudice to nationality. By taking full responsibility for the misuse
of his invention and taking the right steps to curb it, Alfred will no longer
be remembered as the merchant of death but his name carved with gold in history
and eternally immortalized through the institution of the most prestigious
awards in the world for the preservation of mankind, the Nobel Prizes. Nearer home, the Alfred Nobel example was
deployed by Nigeria’s ethnic Igbo when criminality defined the cities of Aba
and Onitsha. Determined to change the terrible images of these two important
commercial cities that was robbing off negatively on the reputation of the
larger members of the Igbo ethnic demography, traditional method of law
enforcement was evolved with the formation of the Bakasi Boys security outfit,
which will eventually record relative success in ridding these cities of
endemic criminal elements to relief of the majority. Similarly, when the issue
of human trafficking and prostitution syndicate in Europe was prevalently
identified with the Edo ethnic demography, there were no loud cries of ‘’ethnic
profiling’’. Rather, ethnic Edo individuals and interest group in partnership
with relevant government, non-governmental agencies as well the traditional
institutions took full responsibility by working in concert to unravel the
socio-cultural factors responsible for the rooted problem among ethnic Edo
people of Nigeria. It
is the absence of the Alfred Nobel example that is at the heart of the current
controversy surrounding the criminal activities of killer herdsmen of mostly
Fulani ethnicity in Nigeria.  Nigeria’s
ethnic Fulani that are mostly distinguishable by their excellence in
educational, professional, administrative and political careers, making them
one of the most sophisticated people in Africa, 
should be concerned more about this endemic problem of criminality among
a tiny fraction of their demography and careless about the semantics of ethnic
profiling. In addition to being the loudest at condemning their criminal
activities, Nigeria’s ethnic Fulani owe it a duty to the rest of Nigeria to
expose them by helping to unravel the form, nature, motive as well as other
social-cultural factors responsible for the surging crime involving some
undesirable elements that are identifiable as ethnic Fulani. Nomadic animal husbandry, which is
primarily characterised by herding cattle from one place to another in search
of pasture and clement weather is a cultural economy of Africa’s ethnic Fulani,
hence the descriptive ‘’herdsmen’’ for identifiable members of the group. In
recent times, armed conflicts between farmers and herders over the struggle for
land resources has seen an influx of armed mercenary fighters that came poured
into Nigeria from all over west and central Africa ostensibly to help their
ethnic Fulani herder brethren in Nigeria. These mercenary fighters whose
violent activities resulted in the killings and destruction of farmer
communities across Nigeria are themselves skilled herdsmen but in this instance
they are not engaged in the business of cattle breeding hence the appellation
‘’killer herdsmen’’. However, these killer elements are mostly
foreigners and have no sentimental attachments to most of Nigeria’s indigenous
peoples including their ethnic Fulani kinsmen. When not engaged in terrorizing
farmer communities to make way for fellow migrant nomadic ethnic Fulani
herdsmen, they turn their energy towards criminality as they now regard the
entire Nigerian geographic space as a thoroughfare of limitless criminal
economic opportunities. With the government of the day still fixated on
farmer/herders clash narrative and obvious reluctance to take appropriate
actions against armed groups, killer herdsmen now have a free reign in criminal
activities such as kidnapping for ransom and armed robbery across the country. Tagged as bandits, their natural skill as
herdsmen as well as shared ethnic identity with Nigeria’s indigenous Fulani has
enabled these killer herdsmen to infiltrate communities in the north west of
Nigeria and unleash a wave of criminal activities such as cattle rustling,
kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery in addition to the terror of mass
killings. Therefore, it will be a collective assault on the sensibilities of
thousands of victims of this pattern of crime to question their judgement on
the ethnic identification of their criminal tormentors as that will amount to
asking the obvious question of why a Donald Trump is identified as White. Such
other questions as ‘’where is the cow of the herdsmen’’ smacks of wilful
ignorance as not every herdsman is a cattle breeder in the sense that not all
auto mechanics own repair shops. Just as some auto mechanics deploy their
skills in the criminal activities of auto mobile theft, these killer herdsmen
deploy the natural skills of their nomadic animal husbandry to rustle cattle, kidnap
people on the high way and herd them deep into the bush in distances covering
average of 30 kilometres. Nigeria is undoubtedly under siege from
marauding killer headsmen from continental Africa. In a country that is sharply
polarised along ethno-geographic fault lines, the criminal activities of killer
herdsmen pose a serious existential threat to the fragile security, peace and
stability of the Nigerian state. This is hardly the time to play hide and seek
over semantics of ethnic profiling as there should be a concerted effort to
tackle a criminal scourge that does not recognizes Nigeria’s ethno-geographic
and religious divisions. There
is a clear distinction between profiling a criminal suspect and ethnic
profiling of a group.The first investigative step towards solving a problem of
crime is to profile the criminal appropriately down to his ethnicity, religion,
associations, contacts and evaluation of his thought process through his
verifiable interactions. When the media reports the testimonies of victims of
crime including the time, location and ethnic identity of their criminal
tormentors, it is not ethnic profiling but profiling of a criminal suspect.