#TrackNigeria: The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Jos, Plateau on Thursday
ordered the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Mr Haruna
Maitalla, to open and close their defence on Friday. Mr Jonathan Dabo, and his party, the PDP are challenging the
victory of Maitalla at the March 9 re-run for Jos North/Bassa Federal
Constituency of Plateau. The tribunal, which gave the order after accepting some
documents tendered from the Bar by Maitalla as exhibits, said that time was
against them and there was need for them to open and close their defence in one
day. When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, Maitalla,
through his Counsel, Mr Garba Pwul, SAN, tendered some documents which were
accepted and marked as exhibit R1 to R72. Pwul, prayed the tribunal to consider the documents as
deemed read and consent given, a request which triggered serious arguments
among parties involved in the matter. He (Pwul) had claimed that by virtue of paragraph 46 (4) of
the first schedule of the Electoral Act 2015, there was need for the petitioners
to give their consent on the documents as deemed prayed so as to save time and
in the interest of justice. “I submit that inherent to that provision, consent can’t be
withheld or refused to a party perpetually or whimsically because that will be killing
the spirit of that provision, which is aimed at the petition’s expedition and
speedy disposal. “Your-lordship, consent can only be refused by the
petitioners on sound and good reasons, which will advance the course of
justice. ”I submit that the juris will still have the discretion to
allow the documents tendered as prayed, “ Pwul solicited. Mr Leo Ebi, Counsel to APC, the 3rd Respondent, also
supported Pwul’s line of argument and insisted that the petitioners cannot
withhold their consent on the documents “tendered through the Bar by the 2nd
respondent.” “Giving consent will amount to judicial attainment of that
priceless objective, which is a need to do justice. If l May ask, on what
reason should they (petitioners) refuse consent? “I hereby urge your Lordship to refuse such objection and
grant the application of the 2nd respondent, “Ebi prayed. Also supporting that line of argument, Mr Uoskay Heavens,
counsel to INEC, claimed that the petitioners had made reference to the same
documents in pages 200 and 201 of their petition and “equally relay on them.” “It’s therefore not equitable for them to ask the tribunal
to disregard the application of the 2nd respondent,” Heavens argued. Responding, Mr Sunday Oyawole, lead counsel to the
petitioners, described their arguments as “out of place” as “that provision
(para 46(4) of electoral Act 2015) was totally misinterpreted.” “Notwithstanding, that law doesn’t expect the party to give
reasons as it’s of the very essence of making the this application of taking
documents tendered from the bar as read is to circumvent the dire consequences
of dumping the said documents to this tribunal. “Furthermore, if this application is granted, we would have
been shut out from testing the voracity of the contents of those documents
through cross examination, which is a right guaranteed by the 1999 constitution
as part of fair hearing. “If the documents are taken as read, the 2nd respondent will
as well go home without calling even one witness and will just say he has
closed his case, and the documentary evidence wouldn’t have been tested and we
will be in for it, “ he lamented. Oyawole reminded the tribunal of it’s earlier firm decision
on such a situation and “therefore we want this tribunal to hold that these
documents can’t be taken as read.” According to him, “justice shouldn’t be slaughtered on the
basis of speed because it will be injustice to take these documents as read.” He told the tribunal that “we want this tribunal to refuse
the application and to put these documents to test as our humble application.” After listening to all the arguments put up by all parties
involved in the matter, the tribunal dismissed the application of Maitalla,
Pwul  and ordered them to prepare their witnesses to defend their case. The tribunal declared, “the application of the 2nd
respondent is hereby refused because it will amount to shutting the petitioners
from testing the voracity of those documents tendered.” “Consequently, the defense is hereby ordered to prepare
their witnesses in order to open and close their defense on Friday, Aug. 16 as
we adjourn today, Thursday,” the Tribunal declared. (NAN)