Today, the Presidential
Retreat opens in Abuja for the 43 ministers-designate of the second cabinet of
President Muhammadu Buhari in this democratic dispensation. Coming just on the
trail of the recently concluded two-day Maiden Presidential Policy Roundtable
Retreat at the Aso Rock in Abuja, this is one official brain storming session,
too frequent and high sounding in Nigeria’s high places. South Africa, United
Kingdom and Senegal concluded their elections almost same time with us. Their
respective cabinets have long been inaugurated with Ministers hitting the
ground running not receiving belated tutorials on what they claimed to have
known. The point cannot be
overstated that compared to art of governance elsewhere  which is about
getting the job done (not endless hows and what’s to be done),
Nigeria’s governance architecture  increasingly passes for a weekly school
for elected and appointed public officers by the same very elected and
appointed public officers! One searches in vain for the word “Retreat” in the
constitution such that one wonders why governance-by-handouts has become an
abiding commitment for every new administration at Federal, state and local
government level.  Nigeria’s 1999 constitution (with all its limitations!)
envisages a functioning, performing Nigerian state (not a debating
society!)  with endless resolutions out of dictatorship of  ideas by
scores of resource fellows with media live coverage. Chapter II of the Constitution
deals  with the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State
Policy. It says among other things that “The State shall direct its policy towards ensuring:
(a) the promotion of a planned and balanced economic development; (b) that the
material resources of the nation are harnessed and distributed as best as
possible to serve the common good; (c) that the economic system is not operated
in such a manner as to permit the concentration of wealth or the means of
production and exchange in the hands of few individuals or of a group; and (d)
that suitable and adequate shelter, suitable and adequate food, reasonable
national minimum living wage, old age care and pensions, and unemployment, sick
benefits and welfare of the disabled are provided for all citizens.”  “Retreat” (as
opposed to “Advance” in military parlance!) has inadvertently become a 
Nigerian peculiar invention (or is it a peculiar mess?) according to which
those who had been duly certified by the party, National Independent Electoral Commission
(INEC) and who audaciously campaigned to have all the answers to all our
problems return back to televised schools. Are these “Retreats” truly for
nation-building or some feverish just-in-time-jobs/platforms for consultants of
varying hues? Are retreats  passing fad to grandstand that we are
committed to getting the job done or enduring platforms to account to the
citizens that jobs they are elected to do are being done even well before they
assume offices? This could very well be the
first set of questions for the 2019 Class of 43 ministers-designates who are in
themselves tested and respected “resource fellows” in their own rights, some
being former governors, governor-Ministers, permanent ministers,  with
multiple degrees advertised at the televised Senate screening recently. The key
objective of today’s “Retreat” “is to sensitize the appointees on the status of
implementation of Policies, Programmes and Projects of Governments and the Road
map towards the delivery of Governments Priorities / Next Level Agenda for
2019-2023”. Half of the current cabinet
designates  were retained from the previous cabinet. Are  they also
to be sensitized too, or they are they sensitizing the new designates? Whatever
the worth of the two-day Retreat, I suggest that the first hand-out to the
Class of 43 ministers-designates should be the 1999 Constitution with
boldly  underlined Chapter II on the  Fundamental Objectives and
Directive Principles of State Policy,. Of special importance should be
section 14. which says : (a) sovereignty belongs to the people of Nigeria and
(b) the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of
government: . I
also recommend underlined section 23. which prescribes  national
ethics as “Discipline, Integrity, Dignity of Labour, Social, Justice, Religious
Tolerance, Self-reliance and Patriotism and section 24. It shall
be the duty of every citizen to -(a) abide by this Constitution, respect its
ideals and its institutions, the National Flag, the National Anthem, the
National Pledge, and legitimate authorities; (b) help to enhance the power,
prestige and good name of Nigeria, defend Nigeria and render such national
service as may be required; On discipline, the Ministers
designates must be reminded of the virtues of punctuality and time management
for national development. Nigeria already missed out on the 2015 eight
Millennium Development Goals. We have another chance to join the train of 17
Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs) of 2030 by the United Nations. This
administration’s Next Level Agenda for 2019-2023 has truly come in the fullest
of SDGs 2030! Happily some of the policy initiatives of President
Muhammadu Buhari encapsulate the SDGs agenda 2030.    Goals
7, 8 and 9 deal with Affordable and Clean Energy, Decent Work and Economic
Growth and Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure respectively. The acid text
for the new cabinet is how to ensure uninterrupted power supply. There cannot
be Industrialization without electrification. I also recommend all the historic
Executive Orders already commendably signed by President Muhammadu Buhari to
Ease business and fight corruption. Of special importance should be Executive
Oder 003 dealing with  Support of Local Content in Procurement. Ministers
must use national budgets to buy local goods, promote local value additions,
beneficiation and create mass of millions of decent jobs for the increasingly
frustrated youths. Ministers must rise in support of Buhari’s policy
which  deliberately and rightly denies scarce official foreign exchange to
smugglers and importers of goods that could be produced locally. Ministers
should also be vocal to ensure policy clarity in the wake of orchestrated media
policy distortions such as the recent  CBN’s  commendable move to
deny food importers access to official foreign exchange. Let importers of the
food items and other 41 items  source their FOREX from financial
institutions towards meeting their importations but not through the Central
Bank of Nigeria. Nigeria must move from underdevelopment financing to
Development Financing. Issa Aremu mni