The cities of Berlin and Helskini have been selected to host the next edition of the Nollywood Travel Film Festival (NTFF). The NTFF, which is Nigeria’s biggest and foremost travel film festival, hosts screenings of Nollywood films in cities around the world. The festival, which is currently on a European tour, will screen 12 short films alongside ‘The Power of 1′, ‘Amara’ and ‘The delivery Boy’. Speaking on Friday, Mykel Parish, the festival director said that the films were chosen because of their strong messages about Nigeria. He said, “The European tour will run from Berlin to Helskini to Islo, Stockholm and Munich. “We look at films with unique story directions and can appeal to international audience, good quality and has a strong message,” Parish said. ‘Power of 1′, directed by Izu Ojukwu and executive produced by Efe Omoregbe is loosely based on musician, Innocent ‘2baba’ Idiabia. It follows the story of Justin Aba, (played by Alexx Ekubo) a successful musician and a socially conscious Nigerian. He has a large fan base and didn’t know how powerful he was until he supported a cause by identifying with the cause. ‘The Delivery Boy’ is the story of a runaway teenage suicide bomber (Jammal Ibrahim) and his newfound ally, a young prostitute (Jemima Osunde), who must rely on each other to survive the night. The intense, independent film was written and directed by award-winning filmmaker, Adekunle ‘Nodash’ Adejuyigbe. The festival, which is in partnership with Nollywood Germany, screens at The Word Berlin and Moviemento Kino from Aug. 27 to Aug. 31. (NAN) The cities of New York in the United States and Toronto in Canada have been selected to host the next two editions of the Nollywood Travel Film Festival (NTFF). The NTFF, which is Nigeria’s biggest and foremost travel film festival, hosts’ screenings of Nollywood films in cities around the world.… August 15, 2018 In "Art" The Nollywood Travel Film Festival (NTFF) will spotlight female directors in Nollywood at the Glasgow edition, festival director, Mykel Parish said. Parish, who spoke in Abuja on Tuesday, said that female filmmakers Tope Oshin and Blessing Egbe would lead the focus on women in the industry. He added that the… September 25, 2018 In "Society News" Mr Mykel Parish, the founder of The Nollywood Travel Film Festival (NTTF) has described the inclusion of Nigerians in the Oscars voting academy as a boost for Nollywood. Veteran Nollywood actress Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde and longtime filmmaker Femi Odugbemi made the list alongside Nigerian-British actress Wunmi Mosaku and producer Ngozi Onwurah.… June 27, 2018 In "Society News"