By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal has called the National Assembly, NASS, to as a matter of urgency, begin the process of electoral reforms and constitutional amendments. He made the plea on Wednesday when he received ECOWAS Head of delegation to Nigeria, Ketil Karsen who paid him courtesy visit at government house Sokoto. Tambuwal said that the process would ensure that all the new innovations introduced in the current electoral process were captured, constitutionally, adding that the process would give legal framework that would strengthen and deepen the nation’s democracy. Earlier, Ambassador Ketil Karsen said he had dialogue with Tambuwal on various issues, including security situation in the North western part of Nigeria. He said the governor told him the efforts being made by governors of the zone to curtail the manace of banditry and insecurity. Ketil Karsen explained that peace provide opportunity for development, pointing out that their discussions also focused on development challenges in Sokoto state and future support of EU to the state government. The Ambassador further said that they discussed on the need for early reform of the electoral act, which according to him, would deepen and consolidate the nation’s democracy. He further said that they discussed general health, education, environment, women and gender streamlining among others. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has inaugurated the 80kw solar mini grid electricity project that will provide uninterrupted power supply to Kurdula community of Gudu LGA of Sokoto State. The event was attended by the Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Sulaiman Hassan Zarma, European Union (EU) Ambassador to… January 21, 2018 In "Energy" By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor #TrackNigeria: The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Uche Secondus has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and other stakeholders to ensure that the rerun elections scheduled on Saturday were transparent. Making the call after consultations with Sokoto state governor… March 20, 2019 In "News" #TrackNigeria: The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila (APC-Lagos State), says the house will hit the ground running in terms of electoral reforms. Gbajabiamila made the promise while receiving the European Union Election Observer team on Nigeria and ECOWAS in Abuja on Tuesday, a statement by the… June 18, 2019 In "News"