The Rotary Club of Ibadan, Jericho Metro, on Sunday installed Mrs Bisi Yomi-Layinka as its first female President, to run the affairs of the club for the 2019/2020 year. At the Investiture and Induction of Board members, the newly elected president expressed her determination to set up initiatives that would improve the dignity of the girl-child. Yomi-Layinka said that during her tenure, the club would partner with secondary schools in strengthening reproductive health education in order to reduce the rate of teenage pregnancy and sexual diseases. According to her, reproductive health education is the first line of defence when it comes to fighting sexually transmitted diseases including HIV and pregnancy. She further promised that the club would continue to improve on the lives of the less-privileged in tge society through medical outreach and provision of basic education and literacy. “It is with great joy that I stand before you on this beautiful day to present my acceptance speech as not just the eighth president of the Rotary Club of Ibadan Jericho-Metro, but also blazing a trail as its first female president. “A club that was previously exclusively for men has witnessed upsurge in women membership and leadership in recent years. “I solicit the support of all Rotarians, friends and corporate partners for the successful implementation of our service projects in this 2019/2020 Rotary year. “We have come up with a N20 million budget estimate to enable us improve the life of the girl-child, maternal and child health, water and sanitation and basic education in our local community. “Please let us all give generously and render our service to humanity to make a difference,” she said. In his remarks, the immediate past president of the club, Mr Kayode Adelekun, noted that the club witnessed the induction of 14 new members and 10 Paul Harris Fellows under his tenure. The Chairman of the occasion, Chief Jide Agbeja, urged philanthropists to offer selfess services through the rotary club for meaningful and lasting socio-economic development. Agbeja said that “well-to-do” persons in the society must support the government in order for all Nigerian children, irrespective of social status, get access to quality education. The Rotary International which was established in 1905, did not allow female membership until 1987 following a United States Supreme Court ruling. (NAN)