All eyes are now on Major General
Bashir Salihi Magashi  to consolidate the technical victory against 
 Boko Haram insurgency and other insecurities challenges before the
country. in a wave of attacks by various
militants groups   spanning a ten year period,families have lost
their loved ones. Many women are now widows. Children become orphans with no
hope of the future. Many lives and properties have been lost and a large number
of citizens rendered homeless.  The latest insecurity challenge facing the
country and scares Nigerians is  Kidnapping  and also  the
attacks carried out by Fulani Herdsmen on some communities in the North and
South. In the early stage of Buhari’s
administration  Boko Haram suffered one loss after another until the
authority boldly declared on National Television that the militants had been
“technically defeated”. That “technical victory”, it is apparent, is fast
becoming a pyrrhic victory with the renewed wave of attacks by the insurgents
on soft targets. During your ministerial screening in
the Senate when reacting to a question by the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Kalu on
insurgency in the country, you have  said the relationship among the
service chiefs was not cordial , “Regarding the issue of the service chiefs, in
my own view, we are caught in a situation where you find out that each
commander or service chief tries to please the nation. “Anytime the service chiefs
conduct operations, you find radio coverage that the Air Force has done this,
the Army has done this; thank God we are not near the ports where we can see
that the Navy is also involved. “If the Navy was around here, then
the three services would have been on the same collision course. In an ideal situation
where I served as an ECOMOG commander, it was a single unit that was overseeing
the needs, the aspirations, welfare of our troops in combat zones.” Also elaborated that , “In Nigeria today,
what we call command structure is now being seen as weakness.  We have
almost disseminated all our forces and I do not think the current structure is
a true reflection of the manpower requirement in this country. We only have
divisions probably by name but I do not think we have the required manpower to
man them. You added  that to fight an
insurgency war or general insecurity, the Army, Air Force and the Navy should
have a common troop working together and should not operate independent of one
another with  need for  a single commander should take care of reinforcement,
operations, change of troops, among other needs. WHAT YOU AND PRESIDENT NEED TO DO General you had wealth of experience
in warfare being one time served as chief of staff  ECOMOG  in
Liberia. What Nigerians effected is military victory not technical
victory. The only actions will curb
insecurity in the country is need for services chiefs to relocates to the
hotspot of insecurities areas like Chief of Army Staff alleged that Nigerian
soldiers are not committed so he should permanently be in Borno, where he will
coordinate his troops. The Chief of Defence Staff should have an annexe office
in Zamfara, where he would spend more time than sit in his  comfort office
in Abuja. The Chief of the Air Force needs to also be on his toes. We need a
new paradigm in terms of methods and personnel to fit into the sophistication
of these crimes. Nigerians  need to see a
different approach in terms of choosing the right personnel to dispense with
the responsibilities of safeguarding the country.the present Chiefs, seem to
have reached their nadir and the motivation to deliver the right modules for
effective security is tellingly missing. Some Nigerians have been saying that
it is about time the President rejig his services chiefs. Let these tired legs
leave the scene for a more robust and result-driven younger minds that will
come up with a new perspective on how to combat our insecurity challenges. The  army should be trained in
Counter-terrorism strategies and tactics, asymmetric warfare, and desert
warfare. Nigeria militaries  lost morale due to overstaying in the war
nettle and lack of proper medical attention and poor salary and allowances.
Those within the ranks of the military who give controversial orders that
impede efforts to crush the insurgency should be court-martialled and punished
appropriately. There is need to reduces the shortage of security personnel by
creating  a National Guard and a Special Forces Unit with tasked with the
responsibility of protecting the Nigerian state from internal and external
aggressors. It  is about time the President
goes beyond mere sloganeering, and sprouts to action. We are tired of
weather-beaten rhetoric that has become so repetitive and boring.For about ten
years the  country  had its own bitter taste of the many different
kind of insecurities   which practically stalled development in
many  areas that have direct impact on human capital development indices. In 1992, Major General 
Bashir Magashi was nominated to attend the Senior Executive Course 14 (SEC 14)
of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies. His research topic
was “Insulating the Nigerian Military for Government” Magashi subsequently served as
Commander of the Brigade of Guards,   GOC 2 Mechanised Infantry Division,Ibadan,
in 1996 and thereafter served as the Commandant of the Nigerian Defence
Academy. He was  retired in 1999. On his political activetism 
Major-General Bashir Magashi was legal advisor to the All Nigeria People’s
Party ANPP In 2002, National Chairman Democratic Peoples Party. Later APC
member in Kano. Finally Beyond the insurgency in the
North-East, security threats, previously alien to our country, such as
kidnapping, cattle rustling, farmers/herders clashes and banditry have now more
than ever before threatened the peaceful coexistence of our country. This
situation needs  for proactive actions and increased inter-security-agency
collaboration and engagement with the civilian populace to turn the tide
against criminals. Both security agencies should be recognised and treated as
full citizens with the same rights and obligations as any other
citizens. Militants of all kind should be boxed into a corner where they
will be forced to negotiate peace terms which should be devoid of exchange of
cash.  Wishing you Allah’s guidance to witness real victory against
all kind of insecurities facing the country not  technical victory. Dukawa can be reached at abbahydukawa@gmail.com