#TrackNigeria The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to reconsider his directive stopping the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) from allocating foreign exchange for food importation. PDP in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, on Thursday in Abuja, said the directive was ill-timed and completely against the well-being of Nigerians. Buhari had on Tuesday in Daura, Katsina State, directed the CBN to stop providing foreign exchange for importation of food into the country with the steady improvement in agricultural production and attainment of full food security. He said the foreign reserve would be conserved and utilised strictly for diversification of the economy, and not for encouraging more dependence on foreign food import bills. The president noted that the country had achieved food security, and for physical security “we are not doing badly’’. Ologbondiyan said that the directive would cause food scarcity in the country and worsen the already harsh living conditions of Nigerians. “The PDP states strongly that Nigerians do not, in any way, deserve such suffering being foisted on them by such directive on food. “Such situation will only breed further despondency among our citizens, heighten our security challenges and put more pressure on compatriots, many of who, in the face of current suffering, are resorting to suicide and slavery mission as options.’’ Ologbondiyan urged Buhari to recover the trillions of naira alleged to have been embezzled and channel the resources towards food security for Nigerians. (NAN) #TrackNigeria: The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) on Wednesday warned that there would be unprecedented smuggling of food products because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to the CBN to withdraw foreign exchange for food importation. The Director-General of NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale,      while reacting to the directive, told reporters in… August 14, 2019 In "Business" #TrackNigeria: The Soil Science Society of Nigeria (SSSN) says Federal Government outright banning of food importation will lead to inflation and further impoverish the masses. Prof. Bashir Raji, the President of the society said this while reacting to the recent pronouncement of President Muhammadu Buhari, that Central Bank of Nigeria… August 15, 2019 In "Agriculture" Economic experts have lauded the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on its plan to put forex restriction on imported dairy products to the country. Some economic experts who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Sunday said the move would boost economy of the country. NAN… July 28, 2019 In "Agriculture"