#TrackNigeria Sen. Peter Nwaoboshi, on Wednesday, filed a suit, seeking the Federal High Court Abuja to vacate its earlier interim forfeiture order on his assets granted to the Federal Government. The presidential panel in charge of recovering stolen public properties had, on July 14, taken temporary possession of several properties allegedly owned by Mr Nwaoboshi, representing Delta North Senatorial District. This followed an interim forfeiture order by Justice Taiwo Taiwo, on July 5, giving the lawmaker or anyone who might have owned the seized assets 30 days to convince the court why they should not be permanently forfeited to the Nigerian government. In a motion on notice by Counsel to the senator, Mr Robbert Clarke, SAN, on Wednesday, Nwaoboshi urged the court to set aside the ruling. Justice Taiwo, who adjourned the matter till Aug. 19, said the decision was to give all parties the room to file all the necessary processes in the interest of justice. (NAN) #TrackNigeria: The Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Properties has sealed off suspicious assets and property belonging to Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, located in Warri, Asaba in Delta State, and Lagos State. The Panel carried out the action following last week’s ruling of a Federal High Court sitting… July 14, 2019 In "Anti-Graft" Justice Abdulazeez Anka of the Federal High Court Ikoyi on Wednesday October 4,  2017 affirmed the interim  forfeiture of a property belonging to Senator Peter Nwaoboshi. The judge  had earlier on April 24, 2017 granted an interim forfeiture of the said property, a 12-floor high rise building to the EFCC.… October 4, 2017 In "Anti-Graft" A vacation judge, Justice Chuka  Obiozor, sitting at the Federal High Court, Lagos has ordered the temporary forfeiture of a $37.5m( N11.75bn) property on Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos allegedly belonging to a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke. The order came following an exparte application, on July 17, 2017supported… July 19, 2017 In "Featured"