#TrackNigeria–A major player in the oil and gas industry, Exxon Mobil, has attributed its landmark achievements in the Nigerian oil and gas sector to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), noting that the result-oriented leadership provided by the corporation has helped a great deal in growing the energy sector in Nigeria. The Chairman and Managing Director of the ExxonMobil, Mr. Paul
McGrath, who is also the Chairman of the Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) of
the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industries (LCCI), disclosed this today at
the 2019 edition of the Annual Conference of the Nigerian Association of Energy
Correspondents (NAEC) in Lagos. A press release by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs
Division, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, stated that the ExxonMobil boss, in his opening
remarks as chairman of the conference, listed NNPC prompt settlement of the
cash-call arrears as one of the many interventions by the corporation that
helped the company to remain stable in business. In his keynote address, the Group
Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, said the corporation, beyond
efforts to fix the refineries, was focusing on unlocking the huge opportunities
in the gas sector to fast-track the country’s industrialization agenda. “Of
much importance is the position of gas as a catalyst for national development.
All hands must be on deck to ensure that, using the realistic government
policies, gas is fully utilized domestically to power industries and fast-track
the nation’s march towards industrialization”, the GMD stated. Mele
Kyari, who was represented by the corporation’s Chief Financial Officer, Mr.
Umar Ajiya, stated that the national oil company was looking at the full
deployment of modern technologies to drive efficiency and institute a
transparent system that could compete favourably with other players on the
global stage. “We
are also leveraging on technology and innovation to achieve the goal of
building an energy company of global excellence, ready to impact positively on
the nation’s economy”, he said. The
NNPC boss emphasized the need for all stakeholders to work together in an
atmosphere that is beneficial to all players in order to place Nigeria on the
path of development. Mele
Kyari informed that the corporation was committed to taking critical decisions
that would position Nigeria on the path of growth, prosperity and development,
noting that the teeming Nigerian youth have high hope in the current
leadership. Earlier
in his address, the Chairman of the Nigerian Association of Energy
Correspondents (NAEC), Mr. Tunde Dodondawa, said there was need for the country
to look beyond fossil fuel and venture into renewable energy for a safer
environment.