The Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen Tukur Yusufu Buratai has been commended for initiating and empowering institutional mechanism to effectively checkmate human rights abuse by the personnel of the Nigerian Army particularly during internal security operations in different parts of the country in and out of conflict situations as well as during exercises and operations. The commendation was made by
prominent intellectuals who were resource persons and presented papers at the
just concluded three days Directorate of Army Public Relations Study Period
held at the Auditorium of 1 Division Headquarters Kaduna. Prof Toba Alabi of the Nigerian
Defence Academy, in his paper titled “Developing a Viable Framework
Against Human Rights Violations During Internal Security Operations in Nigeria,
emphasised the necessity of the military to respect human rights and account
for their actions in their day to day operations while on internal Security
Operations. He emphasized the importance of
training of security personnel in the areas of protection of human rights and
protection of civilians in conflict. According to him, “To effectively
address human rights violations it is necessary to address the drivers or
causes of conflict which made the military to come out in aid to civil
authority. The need to reduce the level of involvement of the military in
Internal security operations will help in addressing abuse of human rights by
members of the Nigerian Army. He commended the Nigerian Army
for  institutionalising mechanism to checkmate rights abuses by personnel
of the service in the areas of rules of engagement, code of conduct, human
rights desk and department of civil military affairs at the Divisional and Army
Headquarters Abuja . Similarly, Professor Samaila Mande,
the Dean, Post Graduate School of the National Open University of Nigeria, in
his paper entitled “Information Operations: Galvanizing Citizens Support
Towards Successful Military Operations”  opines that the military
should takes information/media operations and counter narratives and
deradicalisation modules serious to be able to effectively and strategically
deal with  terrorists propaganda machinery as well as communicate messages
that could achieve the desired impact or douse tension during conflict or
in  emergency situations. The phenomenon of fake news and how
to deal with it was equally discussed. Professor Mande cited the example of
the Nigerian Army Cyber Warfare Command and Nigerian Army Situation room as
some of the commendable achievements of the Army especially during and after
the 2019 General Elections, where crisis that could have threatened or
disturbed the nation was proactively thwarted or effectively dealt with. He
commended the Nigerian Army leadership for its forsight by the establishment of
these two important commands for the peace and security of the nation.