#TrackNigeria–President Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Zaria, Kaduna State, pledged that his administration will continue to implement policies and execute people-oriented projects that will change the narrative for Nigerians. Speaking at the commissioning of the Zaria Water
Supply Expansion Project, President Buhari said the Federal Government, in
spite of lean resources, spent N11.8 billion on the construction of the
multipurpose 186.1 Million Cubic Meters Galma Dam as a contribution to the
project. ”This project is the culmination of the joint
efforts of the Federal Government of Nigeria, Kaduna State Government, Islamic
Development Bank and the African Development Bank. ”The multilateral nature of the funding for this
project underscores the great importance the Kaduna State Government and the
Federal Government attach to this project, which is designed to provide adequate
water to the growing city of Zaria and its environs, ” President Buhari said. Commending Governor Nasiru El Rufai of Kaduna State
for completing the water project which had hitherto languished for years, the
President said: ‘‘I am aware that the governor undertook to offset all
outstanding payments to the contractor in 2015 which led to the resumption of
construction activities at the 150 Million Litres-per- day water treatment
plant.’’ The President equally praised the Kaduna State
government for demonstrating an appreciable commitment to development through
people-oriented projects. ”To our multilateral partners, the Islamic
Development Bank and the African Development Bank, we are grateful for your
part in providing the needed funding to undertake and complete the transmission
mains, service reservoirs, booster stations and distribution network. ”We could not have done it without your
contributions. We are hopeful that this partnership will continue as we seek to
reach out to other communities, cities and states in Nigeria to provide water
facilities and other essential services,” he said. The President challenged the Kaduna State Water
Corporation, responsible for operating and maintaining the system, to live up
to expectation, urging beneficiaries to be responsible citizens by ensuring
vigilance over the facilities and payment for water consumed. He noted that water infrastructure investments such
as this one would serve for decades if they are well managed and well
maintained. ”The project is partly funded by loans that will be
repaid by coming generations. We should ensure that they are appreciative even
as they continue to pay back the loans,” the President said. President Buhari, who congratulated ”the good
people of Zaria for being the beneficiaries of such a timely and life-changing
water project”, commended the contractors and consultants for the quality and
timely delivery.