 Deputy President of the Senate,
Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has expressed felicitations with the Chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, Senator Olamilekan ‘Yayi’ Adeola on his 50th
birthday. According to a press release by 
his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity,Mr Yomi Odunuga,S to the Deputy
Senate President the felicitation was contained in one of  the  letters his Omo-Agege  sent out yesterday Odunuga said his boss  also applauded the appointment of Mr. Adeniyi
Adesina and Mr. Iheanacho Nwosu as editors of The Nation and The Sun newspapers
respectively. “Over the years, you have
remained a populist grassroots politician and philanthropist, utilizing your
professional capacity, life experiences and resources for the betterment of
your people,” he noted in the letter to Senator Adeola. He also prayed for God to grant
Senator Adeola long life, peace, good health and enduring prosperity. Applauding the management of Vintage
Press Limited, publishers of “The Nation” newspaper for appointing its former
News Editor, Mr. Adeniyi Adesina as its Editor (Daily), the Deputy Senate
President noted that the antecedents of Adesina speak well for his capacity. Adesina, who was the Chief Press
Secretary to the governor of Osun State until last week, resumed work as The
Nation’s Editor (Daily) last Sunday. “Your elevation to that lofty
position attests to the testimonials given by many of your colleagues on your
antecedents as a conscientious and thorough professional. “It is therefore easy to applaud the
decision of the board and management of Vintage Press Limited in this regard,”
Senator Omo-Agege stated. In his congratulatory letter to the
new Editor (Daily) of “The Sun” newspapers, Mr. Iheanacho Nwosu, Senator
Omo-Agege expressed his wish for the new editor and his newspaper to continue
recording much success. “Right from its very first day on
the streets, your newspaper established its closeness to the heartbeat of the
Nigerian masses and it has continued to play a significant role in our
democracy. “Considering your antecedent for
hard work and effectiveness, I have no doubt that you will not only continue a
tradition of excellence but lift the newspaper to greater heights as well,” the
Deputy Senate President stated in his letter to Nwosu.