President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in Daura, Katsina State, joined thousands of people in mourning Alhaji Abdulrahman Danmalam, who was the Dan Madami and a District Head in the palace of the Emir of Daura. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports President Buhari’s condolence message was delivered to the family of the deceased by Malam Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity and Musa Haro, the President’s nephew. In a statement by the presidential aide, President Buhari described the demise of the Dan Madami as “very painful’’.The President urged the family to take solace in the fact that their bread winner had left behind a good name and record of unparalleled service to the community. “Daura Emirate will forever remember this illustrious son of Katsina state and Nigeria,” President Buhari said.The President also commiserated with the Emir of Daura, government and people of Katsina State, among whom the Dan Madami lived and served until his death. President Buhari prayed Allah to grant them the grace to bear the loss.(NAN) President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday met with members of Katsina Elders’ Forum at his private resident in Daura, Katsina State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State, the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruk and the Galadima of Katsina and former President of… February 18, 2018 In "Featured" President Muhammadu Buhari Wednesday arrived his country home in Daura, Katsina State, preferring to walk through the street from the helipad as an overwhelming crowd surged to welcome him. The President, who was received at the helipad by the Emir of Daura, Alhaji Faruk Umar Faruk, abandoned the motorcade as a… August 30, 2017 In "Featured" President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday arrived his home town, Daura, Katsina state, to commiserate with members of his extended family who were bereaved recently. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the presidential aircraft carrying the president and some members of his encourage landed at the Umaru Musa Yar’adua… February 15, 2018 In "News"