Attempts
to whip up sentiments against Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie
Omo-Agege and the leadership of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta state
are doomed for failure, APC ward leaders from Isoko North and South have
declared. At their
emergency meeting in Oleh, Delta State at the weekend, the ward leaders
declared a vote of confidence on Senator Omo-Agege and the Delta state APC
chairman, Prophet Jones Ode Erue, stressing that the duo’s populist leadership
can transform more lives at the grassroots. In a
communique signed by Deacon (Engr) Irorobona Ozomaro on behalf of APC ward
leaders, they warned that some individuals sponsoring incitements towards
causing frictions between Isoko and Urhobo people and to demean the two
political leaders must stop their anti-people agenda or get prepared to face populist
wrath. Stressing
that the vested interests’ magnification of Isoko/Urhobo differences is
extremely harmful to the Isoko political interest and the progress of Delta
state, they particularly expressed anger over undue allegations being made
against Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and the state’s APC chairman, Prophet Jones Ode
Erue over the filling of the vacant position of Managing Director at Niger
Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Questioning
the motive of those who seem bent on truncating the peace and good
neighbourliness that have long existed between Isokos and Urhobo people, the
ward leaders threatened to descend on anyone found working for feudal lords
seeking destabilization and disunity within the party in Delta state. A
statement signed by the Secretary for the Isoko Political Ward Leaders
Forum,  Dcn. Engr. Irorobona Ozomaro Secretary,
read in part: “The leaders thereafter passed a vote of explicit confidence
on the duo of His Excellency, Distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Chairman
APC Delta State, Prophet Jones Ode Erue because, they are satisfied with their
leadership posture and believe, they will be able to give the Isoko people a
sense of belonging in the area of Federal Government appointments befitting for
the Isoko people. “The
leaders also frowned at the height of disrespect to constituted authorities by
those behind this public shame who ought to rally around the State Chairman of
the APC who doubles as the Isoko APC political leader to negotiate the best
political outcome for Isoko people but rather, choose to publicly ridicule the
very leader who ought to be protected by every right thinking Isoko son and
daughter, ” the communiqué stated. According
to the APC ward leaders, while Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and the state chairman
APC Delta State, Prophet Jones Erue are jointly working hard to reposition
Isokos politically towards being at par with other ethnic groups in Delta State
in terms of federal appointments, few unpopular individuals who once led futile
bids against them are desperately seeking to recruit anarchists to join them in
a needless battle that can only yield negative dividends for Delta state and
the Niger Delta.