#TrackNigeria An ad hoc committee of the House of Representatives has summoned  heads of four government agencies to appear before in on Monday, Aug. 19. This followed the ruling of the Chairman of the Committee, Rep. Yusuf Buba (APC-Adamawa) at a public hearing on Thursday in Abuja. The agencies ordered to appear are the Nigerian Custom Service (NCS) Nigerian National Petroleum Coperation (NNPC) Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and  Department of Security Service (DSS) The chairman said the committee resolved to take the action as the chief executives failed to honour the invitation to appear before it for an investigative public hearing. The public hearing was on the need to determine why the Warri, Port Harcourt, Calabar, Onne and Onitsha inland complexes are not being put into maximum use. Buba said  it was an important matter and the committee would not let  any individual or group treat it with levity. He said the lawmakers were determined to get to the root of the matter and ensure the ports operated  to full capacity. (NAN) The House of Representatives will proceed with the institution of sanctions against acting Chairman and Management of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Rep. Mark Gbillah (PDP-Benue) has said. Gbillah, who is the Chairman of the House ad hoc Committee investigating data collection processes, maintenance and usage in RMAFC… April 30, 2019 In "Business" The House of Representatives on Tuesday in Abuja, commenced a four-day investigative public hearing on the alleged under remittance of revenue into the federation account by some agencies. The hearing is being organised by the house ad hoc committee on under remittance of revenue, chaired by Rep. James Faleke (APC-Kogi).… December 11, 2018 In "Project" Abuja -based lawyer, Osuagwu Ugochukwu, Managing Partner Victory And Rose Associates has written a petition  to the Economic and  Financial Crimes Commission EFCC  requesting it  to investigate and prosecute people and institutions indicted by the Report of the House of Representives adhoc committee on fuel subsidy payments within seven days.If… May 13, 2012 In "News"