The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief Bola Tinubu and some other prominent politicians on Sunday observed  Eid-el-Kabir prayers at the Dodan Barracks, Ikoyi, Lagos. The state Deputy Gov. Obafemi Hamzat, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa of the state Assembly, a former Governor and minister-designate, Mr Babatunde Fashola, and Lagos APC Chairman, Mr Tunde Balogun, are among the dignitaries. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that hundreds of Muslim faithful gathered on the Dodan Barracks prayer ground for the Eid-el Kabir prayers. The prayers, which started at 9:00a.m., was led by Shiekh Sulaiman Abou-Nolla, the Grand Chief Imam of Lagos State. Abou-Nolla said that Islam was against terrorism, violence, wickedness, suicide and killings. He encouraged Muslims to be tolerant and just. The cleric urged Muslims to do good to  their friends and foes. “Let it come to your knowledge that terrorism, extremism, kidnapping, banditry and killings are all forbidden for Muslims. ” Islam has taught us to establish peace, justice and righteousness and ensure security of lives and property. “We urge our political office holders, as a matter of urgency, to further orientate Nigerian citizens on the need for national unity and integration. “Nigeria is ours, there can be no place like home,” the cleric said, He urged leaders to shun corruption and any acts that could make people to  commit suicide. “Emphasis should be placed on creating more employments for the teeming youths. “Government should review the security architecture of the country and pursue good governance by investing in infrastructure and economic growth programmes,” he said. He urged Muslims to show love and ensure that the poor around them were taken care of, saying they should be a source of blessing to their neighbours, the Islamic community and the entire world. The cleric added that Islam frowned against divisions of any kind. He urged Nigerians to have fear of God. NAN reports that after the prayers, the cleric led in the symbolic slaughtering of sacrificial ram for the festival. (NAN)