I have never known the former Edo State Governor and
National Chair of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams
Oshiomhole, to be a Moslem. As far as I know him, he is a Catholic of the Christian
faith. I can, therefore, confidently attack the premise on which the
beleaguered Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, visited him on the occasion
of the recent Eid-el-Kabir. The visit, to put it unambiguously, was not
fundamentally religious. It was just an opportunity to create a locus for
political benefit. The over-the-top action of “invading” the Iyamho
country home of Oshiomhole with an entourage of his new commissioners, whose
appointment had spawned political animus, actually defined the shape and
texture of the “surprise” visit as described by most of the syndicated media
reports.  But there was no reinforcing content in the meeting. A statement by the Governor’s Special Adviser on Media
and Communications, Crusoe Osagie, had provided the peg for the media reports
of the visit, which failed to maximize the opportunity to prove beyond doubt
that the governor was not just play-acting. Obaseki did not seek private
audience with Oshiomhole to discuss the elephant in the room: the political crisis
occasioned by the divisive inauguration of the State House of Assembly and
subsequent dissolution of the cabinet. When I saw the “breaking news” on one of the online
news portals on Monday, August 12, 2019, I had expected Obaseki to request that
his retinue of officials should step out so that he could have a one-on-one
meeting with Oshiomhole on the way forward. He never did that. Instead,
according to grapevines, he was exchanging banter with Oshiomhole in the
presence of everyone that came with him.  But because he failed to do
so, two things readily came to mind: one, he possibly was unconsciously
exhibiting folly and/or, two, it was possibly part of his deliberate script to
create the impression that all was well between them even when it was evident
that there was crisis in the APC political family in Edo. The
statement by Osagie, which was extensively quoted by the various media organs,
reinforced the second possibility by creating a veneer of bogus peace in the
political family. He merely communicated the hollowness in the razzmatazz that
the governor created by the so-called “surprise” visit. His claim that the
visit had punctured the notion that Obaseki and Oshiomhole
were quarreling was laughable. Don’t enemies live together under the
same roof and pretend that all is well? It is thus pathetic that Obaseki and his group tried
to hide behind a finger in dismissing the notion of adversarial relationship
between him and his predecessor. And, that Oshiomhole would lay the blame at
the doorsteps of the media was, understandably, a red herring. Osagie had
pointed the finger at those who allegedly profit from the challenges (crisis)
as those working so hard to foment or stoke the fire. He said they were the
ones who were creating tension and driving division in the State. Since, according to him, his imagined trouble makers
would twist the purpose of Obaseki’s visit to Oshiomhole, I ask: what then was
the essential purpose of the surprise visit? Osagie failed to state what the
reasonable and essential purpose of the visit was. But the governor was quoted
to have said that he had met with Oshiomhole and that efforts were being made
to resolve the issues between them. Read what the governor reportedly said at St. Paul
Catholic Church, Benin, during a mass organised to mark the 80th birthday
of former National Chair of the APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun: “We have met-me
and my predecessor in office- and fortunately, we do not have any fundamental
issues.  And because we do not have fundamental issues, I believe that
whatever third parties are trying to propagate, I am sure we can talk over
it.  I assure you that very soon things will return to normalcy in
Edo State.” This is simply approbating and
reprobating.  Osagie was reprobating on the one hand and had, yet on
the other hand, reported his boss to be approbating on the issue of crisis
between him and Oshiomhole. Osagie said there were no challenges, tension and
division; yet Obaseki was quoted to have agreed that there were issues but that
they were not fundamental. Further still, he had asserted that whatever third
parties were trying to propagate could be talked over.  Pray, why did
the governor bother to assure us that things would return to normalcy in Edo
state very soon if there were no issues? His acceptance that things have not been normal
validates the very notion of “adversarial disposition”, which his media aide,
Osagie labored very hard to dismiss. In his press statement, he had touched on
one of the issues that had created division and precipitated revulsion against
Obaseki within the APC, to wit: the propaganda that some powerful politicians
wanted the governor to share public funds to them. His claim that the funds
meant for projects that would benefit the masses were being targeted for
sharing was merely appealing to the sensibilities of the masses to support the
governor and deride the so-called powerful politicians. But, indeed, there was nothing of such. The problem
with Obaseki remains the fact that he is unable to manage post-election success
and expectations of party members and leaders. He had also tried in vain to,
single-handed, impose candidates on the party in the last general election but
was disallowed by Oshiomhole who ensured that the state chapter of the party
adopted direct primary election to elect popular candidates instead of indirect
primary election that Obaseki had planned to manipulate to foist his
candidates, who were largely unpopular, on the party. The various candidates were thus elected by party
members and not by selected delegates. That was the issue. The governor had
wanted to build his political structure ahead of his 2020 re-election bid, but
had failed in his gambit. Fearing that he did not have the number to produce
his preferred candidate as Speaker of the State Legislature, he had also
resorted to self-help by deploying the gangsterish method of inaugurating the
House at night in foisting the will of nine members on fifteen members that
were denied the information about the inauguration of the Assembly. It is only folly that would make anyone to dismiss
these as non-issues. Jokers would further  amplify that foolishness. If
the exertion was to diminish the magnitude of the near consensus that the
governor should issue a fresh proclamation to properly convene and inaugurate
the House, Osagie and his boss, on whose behalf he communicates, have failed
abysmally woefully. It is writ-large that the APC, the Presidency and the
party-dominated National Assembly are against the travesty that took place in
Edo Assembly on June 17, 2019 and to cure the mischief, the governor had been
variously advised to do the right thing by issuing a fresh proclamation. Just last week, specifically on August 23, the
controversial Speaker, Frank Okiye, withdrew his suit challenging the decision
of the National Assembly to take over the functions of the State Assembly in
the circumstance of the festering impasse.  His counsel gave the
court no reason for the decision.  Could this be a softening of
stance towards reconciliation? This is the kind of developments that people want to
see, not the “awada kerikeri” (drama extravaganza) that Obaseki displayed by
his “surprise” visit to Oshiomhole at Iyamho on Sallah Day. Seriously, I never
knew Obaseki could be so dramatic. I have always thought he studied Classics
and had Greco-Roman philosophy under his belt. The Iyamho display was more of
an appeal to political illogicality. ·       Ojeifo contributed this piece via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com