 #TrackNigeria–The Executive Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, High Chief Richard Onwuka Egbule, PhD, MFR has called on Staff of the Commission to get acquainted with the Act establishing the Commission. This according to him, will enable them know the enormous contributions and importance of the Commission to the development of the Civil Service and overall welfare of Public Service and to avoid being a push over when it comes to salaries and wages administration in the country. High Chief Richard Egbule made this known in Abuja while handing over to Ekpo Nta, Esq, as the Acting Chairman, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission. A statement from the Chief Press Secretary, Emma Njoku noted that High Chief Egbule handed over to the Commissioner in-charge of Compensation in the Commission, Ekpo Nta after the completion of his statutory ten years tenure. High Chief Egbule who described his ten years as the Executive Chairman as historical being the first to complete two tenure and the first Chairman as the pioneer staff of the Commission from inception in 1992. Responding, the Acting Chairman, National Salaries Incomes and Wages Commission, Ekpo Nta, Esq who noted that anybody taking over from High Chief Egbule must be stepping into a big shoe, because of his achievements in the Commission and called for the cooperation of Staff to lift the Commission to a greater height. Ekpo Nta, Esq who until his appointment was also former Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Offences Commission, ICPC urged the staff to continue to uphold legacies of hard work, modesty and humility left behind by High Chief Egbule. High Chief Richard Egbule started his working career as an Administrative Officer on grade level 08 in the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation and rose to the post of Chief Management Consultant in the same office in 1992. He became a pioneer staff of the National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission in 1992 and worked with the pioneer Secretary, Chief A. O. Okafor to structure and build the Commission with the best professional practice.  This task, he carried out most diligently, producing the needed structural framework and manning levels of the Commission without the use of any external consultant. He was later appointed Acting Head of the Compensation Department – one of six of such Departments in the Commission.  As Acting Head of Department, he steered the Compensation Department to the prime position of the mainstay of the Commission.  From there he rose to Deputy Director in 1999 and became a Director, Compensation in January 2004, and appointed the Secretary to the Commission in 2006. High Chief Richard Onwuka Egbule, PhD, MFR was appointed the Executive Chairman of the Commission by the President Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua in 17th August 2009. And 17th August marked his 10 years as the Executive Chairman.