Dr James Dalok, running mate of the Plateau Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governorship Candidate in the 2019 general elections, has urged youths to desist from casting aspersions on their elders.Dalok made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Mangu, near Jos. NAN reports that the PDP in the state is currently engulfed in crisis which had snowballed into the suspension of its Chairman, Mr Damishe Sango.It also resulted in the appointment of Mr Theophillus Dakas-Shen as the acting Chairman of the party in the state.Dakas-Shen is the North-Central National Vice Chairman of the party. Dalok, who was running mate to Lt. Gen. Jeremiah Useni in the election, expressed regret over the crisis in which he said the PDP found itself in the state shortly after the 2019 general elections. “Castigating and casting aspersions on elders is not in our character as youths on the Plateau, which explains why some of us are so worried over what is trending on the social media in this state. “The social media is meant for passing positive information that will help foster unity, love and togetherness toward stimulating growth and development in the state and Nigeria as a whole. “The PDP on the Plateau that I know is one and it remains so, because we are mature Democrats and patriots who are united to turn Plateau around economically, socially and politically for a better future, “ he said. “We will not allow ourselves to be hoodwinked into animosity, hatred and retrogressive tendencies that will do Plateau and Nigeria no good,” he said.According to him, “any attempt to pitch us against one another simply because of some persons’ personal ambitions, especially for 2023 Governorship race will definitely fail, because what matters to us now is how to reclaim our mandate and restore the state’s lost glory”. The PDP stalwart said that the party could only achieve that when “we are united and focused no matter the challenges before us as a party and democrats”.He, however, thanked the people of Plateau, especially PDP supporters, for their support to their candidature and struggle at the Governorship election petition tribunal. “My principal, retired General Jeremiah Useni and I were strengthened by the peoples’ support and so, we didn’t miss any session at the Tribunal,” he said.He also commended Gen. Useni whom he said, painstakingly shouldered most of the financial burden of the struggle and movement to and from the tribunal. While expressing optimism on the outcome of the tribunal’s judgement, Dalok called for more prayers sayinging, “it’s our belief that our collective prayers and faith that will pay at the end of the day”. (NAN)