No Nigeria’s cabinet
had been much awaited like the one inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari
last Wednesday. Understandably too “six months after the February 23, 2019
presidential election and 84 days after …  inauguration on May 29 and
about a month after their names were sent to the Senate for screening and
confirmation”. Non-disclosures of the ministries of  designates cast the
cabinet inauguration in the mold of awaited Presidential elections results with
conjectures and scores of fake list of ministries to match! Undoubtedly most
cabinet members seemed conscious that considerable time had been lost in a four
year tenure.  Judging from the “Executive Council to – office- movement”
by  most Ministers, I bear witness that one take away from the 
Ministerial Retreat was time consciousness and time management. Indeed Sabo
Nanono (Kano State) – Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development told 
the staff and management of the ministry that it was “Time  to sit up”! I
agree with President Buhari that the sensitization for the Ministers  was
called a Retreat, it was actually “an advance to the Next Level”. Of course the point
cannot be overstated that it’s remains a “ great privilege … to be called upon
to serve in these Great Offices of State”.  All ministries matter but two
are of special importance. Both  Ministries of Industry, Trade and
Investment, Labour and Employment, must prepare to put (in President’s words)
“.. long hours and… be prepared to live laborious days” if among others, the
vision of the “ Administration’s eight years to …have laid the grounds for
lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years” is to be realized.
Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti) – Minister of industry, trade and investment,
Ambassador Mariam Kategu (Bauchi) – Minister of state for industry, trade and
investment and Dr Chris Ngige (Anambra ) – Minister of labour and productivity
. Tayo Alasoadura  (Ondo State) -Minister of State, Labour certainly
must roll up their sleeves. Industry and Investment remains the key driver of
sustainable jobs and development for most national economies of developing
nations like ours.  Indeed for Nigeria and Africa to meet the Sustainable
Development Goal 2030, especially SDG 9 dealing with industry and
innovation, Nigeria must innovate and industrialize. Nigeria must
copy China’s industrialization drive which has within 20 years moved over 250
million people out of poverty through manufacturing and industrialization. My
bias for Textile industry cannot be overemphasized. Nigerian Cotton, Textile
and Garment (CTG) sector alone has the capacity to transform Nigeria’s rural
economy and revive the textile and garment industries by creating over 2
million jobs, improve internal revenue across three tiers of government, reduce
$4.0billion import bill incurred annually on textile and apparel, safeguard and
earn foreign exchange. Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo must quickly get the copy of the
Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) policy if he must make an impact in helping
President Buhari to create mass sustainable decent jobs for the millions of
unemployed youths. Following series of
engagement,  CBN under Godwin Emefiele had initiated a number of
development financing measures to revive the textile sub sector. In the works
is the signing of an unprecedented MOU between the Service Chiefs, Chief
Executives of Uniformed Services, and textile/ garment manufacturers on
enforcement of Executive Order 003 on Support of Local Content in Procurement
By MDAs. With this MOU, uniforms for navy, police, army, NYSC, theatre wears in
hospitals and medical facilities are to be sourced locally from the Nigerian
CTG sector in pursuance of the current administration’s drive towards economic
diversification and creating jobs for our teeming population. No administration
has shown such bold commitment to local patronage. This CBN’s efforts
must be complemented with bold activist fiscal measures from the Ministry of
Trade and Investment as it was in the 70s and 80s when , Nigeria was the home
to Africa’s largest textile industry. Nigeria once had over 180 textile mills
in operations. The industry employed some direct 650,000 workforce and indirect
millions of cotton farmers, traders and garment workers and tailors through out
the country. The sector indeed employed more workforce than the Federal
government. The industry also contributed over 25% of the workforce in the
manufacturing sector and as much to national GDP. Less than  25 textile
factories are operating today at below 20 percent of their production
capacities. The workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry stands at less
than 40,000 people. But even at that the sector  still employed more than
the direct jobs in oil and gas capital. Commendably
President Buhari   the narrative of textile from that of closure of
factories to a bold revival efforts that  will (to use his  
words!)  revive the ‘good old days’ of cotton, textile and garment
sectors. Indeed there are more quotable quotes from him on the state of textile
industry than any previous President. The two Ministers of Trade and
Investment must walk the President’s “promise  to Nigerians that jobs will
be created as part of efforts to revive the economy and that promise will be
fulfilled. We will move as fast as we can to resuscitate the textile and mining
industries, and also improve production in our agricultural sector…..we
cannot allow industries and factories to close down”. He has put in place  a
comprehensive Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) policy which aims at reviving 
the entire value chains of  cotton growing, Ginneries, spinning and
weaving, printing and garments production. The administration
also  initiated the Executive Order 003 on Support of Local Content in
Procurement. Some of us had called for the establishment of Ministry of
Textiles as it is in India, Pakistan, Turkey and China. Until then, Ministers
Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo and  Ambassador Mariam Kategu (Bauchi) – of
industry, trade and investment must establish a whole Directorate to drive the new
Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) policy. Issa
Aremu mni