N1.7bn Fraud: ICPC asks court to
remand head of Disability Cooperative Society in prison custody The Independent Corrupt Practices
and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has requested a Senior Magistrate
Court, Wuse Zone 2, Abuja, to grant an order for the remand of the National
Coordinator, Federal Civil Service Staff with Disabilities Multipurpose
Cooperative Society, Alhaji Iliasu Olarewaju Abdul-Rauf in prison custody over
his alleged involvement in N1.7 billion fraud. Abdul-Rauf who is currently under
arrest by the Commission is alleged have been involved in multiple corrupt acts
including bribery, breach of trust, criminal misappropriation and other frauds
running into hundreds of millions of naira. After his arrest, a search of his
house by operatives of the Commission revealed 14 females between the ages of
11 and 33 years, locked up in one of the rooms and were evacuated, after which
they were handed over to the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking
in Persons (NAPTIP) for further investigation. The suspect who is also facing
multiple charges earlier pressed on him by ICPC was said to have been on the
run from some other security agencies in Nigeria. He is alleged to have used his
position as the National Coordinator of persons with disabilities cooperative
society to hoodwink contractors into donating cash and items such as
wheelchairs, crutches, etc. as “Corporate Social Responsibility” (CSR) for
non-existent contracts. Some of the contractors are said to
have paid as much as N50 million as the “CSR”, while others delivered large
numbers of items to him. The Commission, in the motion filed
before the court, stated that Abdul-Rauf allegedly failed to rehabilitate
‘disability centres” across the country after collecting N1.7 billion from
various contractors under the guise of awarding contracts for the project. ICPC further noted that Abdul-Rauf
had a history of running from the law, having absconded after an earlier charge
had been filed against him by the Commission. The motion, therefore, added that
the remand would prevent his escape a second time pending the completion of
investigation. The Commission  has therefore urged contractors and
businessmen to always verify the genuineness and authenticity of contracts
offered or proposed to them with relevant government agencies in order not to
fall victim of fraudsters.