#TrackNigeria: Worried by the increasing security challenges in the country, the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Anambra Chapter, on Friday expressed willingness to partner with security agencies to stem the rising insecurity in the state. The State Chairman, NYCN, Mr Samuel Egwuatu, made the pledge at a youth security summit organised by the council in collaboration with Directorate of Security Service (DSS) and other security agencies in Awka. The Summit had the theme, “Securing Lives and Property: The Role of Youth Leaders for Sustainable Security in Anambra”. “Security is about life and property and it requires pragmatic approach. “Like the saying, the youth are the security of any nation. Also, about 60 per cent of our security personnel are youths. Which means we have a critical role to play in ensuring stability in our state and country. “This is why we are holding this submit with security stakeholders to brainstorm and proffer solutions that will make us enjoy sustainable peace in the state,” he said. Also, Mr Afam Mbanefo, State Commissioner for Youth Entrepreneurship and Creative Economy, said that ensuring safety of lives and property was the major priority of the Gov. Willie Obiano led-administration. “Security is prime to this administration. With security, we can attract more investors to boost our economy and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). “The youth can assist security agents with information gathering to make Anambra the most secured state in the country,” he said. In his keynote address, retired Air Vice-Marshal Ben Chiobi, lamented that the underused resources that could address security problems in the country were the youth. “In spite of government’s huge budgetary allocation to security, our insecurity challenges remain unresolved. “Nigeria is a country with large youth population, and if funds go to youth empowerment or even engaging them at the decision making level, they can be change agents in our society. “We have high rates of crime today because our youth are not duly recognised and empowered. “Youths as tomorrow’s leaders have much to offer in advancing peace and changing the society while they are still young,” Chiobi said. (NAN) The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) Ebonyi chapter says it will mobilize youths of the state to actively participate in the 2019 general elections. The state President of the NYCN, Mr Sampson Aligwe said this in Abakaliki on Thursday while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Aligwe… November 24, 2017 In "Politics" By Lawal A. Dogara Worried over the increased killings in Northern Nigeria, particularly the North-East, Northern Youths’ groups on Friday said they have set up two committees that would convey their disenchantment to past and present leaders of the region so as to find a solution to the insecurity problem.… April 5, 2014 In "Politics" Mr Prosper Okafor, President, National Youths Summit on Peace and Security (NYSPS), on Wednesday urged Nigerian youths to resist all forms of violence capable of causing breach of the country’s peace and unity. Okafor said in Abuja that security and peace were key to economic and political stability. He urged… November 7, 2018 In "News"