By Ajogwu Jerry The Acting Director Army Public
Relations, Col Sagir Musa has called on the media to objectively support the
activities and operations of the Nigeria Army. The spokesman frowned at situations
where some elements of the media and social media critics with vested interest
unjustifiably accused the military, under report its achievements and glorify
or celebrate the terrorists and other criminal elements in the society. He further advised journalists to
desist from unprofessional conduct by publication of unverified stories or fake
news. He thanked the media for their support and understanding so far. Sagir gave the charge while speaking
at the Opening Ceremony of the Directorate of Army Public Relations Combined
Second and Third Quarter Study Period which commenced in 1 Division
Headquarters, Kaduna on Monday. He maintained that such negative
reportage championed by some journalists and social media negative activists
has the potential of affecting the morale of troops in the frontline fighting
terrorism and other criminal elements in the country. He stated that the Nigerian Army has
performed excellently in checkmating the activities of the terrorists and
bandits across the country in the last four years. He pledged that the Nigerian army
and the Directorate of Army Public Relations in particular will not be deterred
by negative reports. “The Nigerian Army and indeed
DAPR shall continue to do our best in the promotion of Human Rights and must
not allow negative reports circulated in some media platforms affect our
genuine efforts in serving the nation selflessly. He said the aim of the study period
hosted by 1 division Nigerian Army is to galvanize active participation of
participants and personnel of the Directorate in understanding and projecting
the towering image of Nigerian Army activities. Sagir further enjoined participants
to take advantage of the interactive session to engage each other with a view
to enhance knowledge through proactive coverage of Nigerian Army events in line
with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff which is “to have a
professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional
role”. He expressed gratitude to the Chief
of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai for his support to the
Directorate of Army Public Relations since he assumed duty in July 2015. In his remarks, the Chief of Army
Staff represented by the General Officer Commanding 1 Division Nigerian Army,
Maj. Gen. Faruk Yahaya tasked the Directorate to lead the fashioning of better
innovation that will promote effective civil military relations and Nigerian
Army operations. The week long event with a theme
“Strengthening the Nigerian Army Public Relations’ Capacity in Managing
Information in Contemporary Warfare” is expected to end Friday the 26th of
August 2019. Former Spokespersons of the Nigerian Army and military notably Major General Chris Olukolade (rtd), Brig. Gen. Sani Kuksheka Usman (rtd), Brig. Gen. John Agim (rtd) including spokespersons of various security agencies (serving and retired) in the country are present to address participants at the event. Other personalities who also graced
the occasion include former Director Public Relations and Information of the
Nigeria Air Force, Air Commodore Yusuf Anas, Director Defence Information, Col
Onyema Nwachukwu, representatives from the Nigeria Police and other
paramilitary organizations from Abuja and Kaduna axis including Deputy and
Assistant Directors of Army Public Relations from various units and formations
of the Nigeria Army were in attendance.