No
fewer than 30 delegates were among African tax experts charting ways to collect
Value Added Tax (VAT) of more than a trillion dollars infrastructure investment
in the continent for the next 10 years. The
delegates, under the auspices of the African Tax Administration Forum (ATAF),
are holding ATAF Technical Workshop on Value Added Tax (VAT), in the Nigeria
capital, Abuja. Participants
at the workshop are expected to share ideas on the ATAF VAT Technical Committee
report that noted the infrastructural developments and worked on guidance on VAT
issues arising from the construction sector. Speaking
at the event, the Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS),
Mr. Tunde Fowler, noted that VAT remains a key indirect tax that has emerged as
the highest source of tax revenue for most governments and countries that have
implemented it. “I
have been briefed that the excellent turn-out at this technical workshop on VAT
is representative of the different regions of the African continent. This
underscores the focus revenue administrations and other interested parties are
placing on VAT as a high revenue-yielding tax on the continent. “Despite
some challenges that may be identified, it is important for us during this
workshop to apply our minds to how best we can effectively administer the tax,
especially in ways that are equitable to the taxpayer. “VAT
as a key indirect tax has also emerged as the highest source of tax revenue for
almost all governments that have implemented it. It is important to emphasize
that the African Tax Outlook (2017) places VAT as the highest tax revenue
earner, followed by PIT with CIT taking the 3rd position! This is
mainly due to the nature of this tax which is paid by us all when buying goods
or services. “The
tax is also simple to administer and furnishes governments with large amounts
of income with relatively low collection costs based on its system of
self-assessment. The role of a national government therefore remains to monitor
the VAT process and enforce where there are weaknesses,” he said. Fowler
added “In Nigeria, for example, where VAT is critical to development projects
at all levels of government and where VAT revenue is shared 15 per cent to the
federal government, 50 per cent to state governments and 35 per cent to local
governments, FIRS wrote to all commercial banks in May 2018, requesting a list
of Companies, Partnerships & Enterprises with a banking turnover of N1
billion and above. This
activity is aimed at ascertaining those companies that are compliant with the
Tax Laws and those that are not compliant.” The
FIRS boss also stressed the need for the continent to improve on Domestic
Resource Mobilisation (DRM) as a vital instrument to meet their development
agendas and succeed in their poverty reduction programmes. He
said effective and efficient revenue policy and administration in countries
continue to be one of the most consistent ways of achieving the developmental
agenda of the Africa nations. “As
such, the concentration and drive to consistently refine the way countries
assess and collect their domestic resources cannot be overemphasized. VAT in
particular has been singled out owing to its nature as a tax that would not
only bring in the much-needed resources but also lay the ground for gathering
data that enables other taxes such as profit tax to be determined. “It
is in this regard that I wish to encourage this meeting to take time to
identify the key pressure points and gaps in levying this tax that needs to be
addressed. In particular, I wish to congratulate the VAT Technical Committee
and to appreciate the hard work put into the analysis of the construction
sector,” Fowler said. Earlier,
the Executive Secretary of ATAF, Mr. Logan Wort, noted that the digital
economy  presents new opportunities for revenue administration to feature
innovation in system design for the collection, adding “Additionally, an
opportunity is presented for tax policy to leapfrog current discussions and
move towards regimes that collect revenue through the use of technology. “Mr
Chairman, you are aware of the growth of African economies and the massive
investments our governments have made into infrastructure. Over a $trillion
dollars is slated for investment towards infrastructure development over the
next 10 years. “I
mention this because the continent is filled with new developments, high rise
buildings and construction projects. The ATAF VAT Technical Committee has noted
these developments and commenced work on guidance on VAT issues arising from
the construction sector. “The 2018 edition of Deloitte’s
Africa Construction Trends report[1]
indicated that as of June 2018, Africa had 482 projects, each valued at 50
million US dollars or above. In total these construction projects were valued
at 471 billion US dollars. “This was an increase of 53 per cent
of the total value of 307 billion US dollars recorded in 2017. In 2018, the top
three countries in terms of construction projects were Egypt, South Africa and
Nigeria. “Egypt had the highest recorded
number of projects, totalling 46 and accounting for 9.5 per cent of African
projects. In terms of value, Egypt also topped Africa, recording projects worth
79.2 billion US dollars. This accounted for 17 per cent of the continent’s
value of projects. “This illustrates the practical nature under which the
membership of ATAF will benefit from collection minds of Africans to deal with
issues arising in industries on the continent. While construction is that of
tangibility, the rise on the intangibles is common across the globe and indeed
in Africa. “Beset against the 4th industrial
revolution, more and more, we realise that the ‘old way’ of going to a shop to
buy a product may not be the most effective way when the same product is
available online, and at times, cheaper.”