By Danlami Nmodu The Mayaki of Kupa Alhaji Muhammadu Kabiru  Issa (II) was among the traditional rulers who received  their Staff of Office from Governor Yahaya Bello on Tuesday in Lokoja, Kogi state capital. The Mayaki was elevated to a First Class status. Newsdiaryonline reports that the development has generated a lot of excitement among the Kupa people who believe the elevation  of the Mayaki from Second class to a First Class status was long overdue. It could be recalled that Alhaji Muhammadu Kabir Issa (II) became the paramount ruler of Kupa Kingdom about  40 years ago. It was more excitement Tuesday as  Ikin Sanmi  was elevated to a Third Class Chiefdom. Some years back, the Chief of Ikin Makun had been elevated to a Third Class status. Bello tasks traditional rulers on peace, security -NAN The News Agency of Nigeria,NAN reports that Governor Yahaya
Bello of Kogi State on Tuesday tasked traditional rulers in the state on the
need to brace up and work toward enhancing peace and security in their
respective domains. Bello gave the charge in Lokoja during the presentation of
Staff of Office to newly-appointed and upgraded traditional rulers in the
state. He said it would be difficult for the state to attain the
desired development without peace and security. He urged the traditional rulers to discharge their functions
without sentiments and also endeavour to carry their subjects along in decision
making . “It is very important to see your subjects as one
irrespective of religion. Carry them along in whatever you do to foster unity
among yourselves. “Discrimination no matter how small can not move a domain
forward and I want all of you to take caution against such act,” the governor
said. He pledged to ensure that the forthcoming Nov. 16,
governorship election was conducted without hitches. He,however,called on key stakeholders in the election to
abide by the rules of the game to help achieve a peaceful exercise. The Attah Igala and President Kogi Council of Chiefs, Dr
Michael Ameh-Oboni II,in his remarks, commended Bello for the fresh
appointments and upgrading of existing traditional stools across the state. He charged the newly-appointed and upgraded monarchs to be
up and doing , saying “to whom much is given much is expected”. Speaking earlier, Special Adviser to the governor on Local
Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Ohere, said that the
process of appointment, grading and upgrading were politicised in the past. Ohere said genuine agitations were completely denied in the
past ,leading to an accumulation in the number of chiefs qualified to be
graded. He noted that 19 first class, 27 second class and 82 third
class chiefs were presented with staff of office at the occasion . The governor’s aide charged the traditional rulers to be
mindful of their roles and the consequences and expectations of change in their
status. “With the presentation of staff of office, you are now with
the instrument of authority as a delegation from the governor of the state; you
automatically belong to either Kogi State 
Council of Chiefs or Local Government traditional councils. “It is therefore expedient and instructive that you actively
participate in your councils, respect opinions of other members and strictly
observe the traditions, norms and values of your people,”he said. (.(With
reports by NAN))