The Chief of Army Staff (COAS),
Nigerian Army, Lt Gen Tukur Y Buratai, has flagged -off  Nigerian Army’s “21st Combat Service
Support Training Week 2019”. The training is part of the Army’s forecast
of events for the 2019 Training Cycle. Newsdiaryonline reports that the
opening ceremony of the “Combat Training Week” was held at Tuala
Conference and Events Centre, in Gusau, Zamfara State on the 20th of August
2019. Our correspondent reports that the
training, being hosted by the Nigerian Army Corps of Electrical and Mechanical
Engineers, had in attendance the Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Mohammed
Mutawalle, Principal Staff Officers from the Defence and Army Headquarters,
Corps Commanders, and General Officers Commanding (GOCs) 1, 3 and 8 Divisions
of NA. Others present include  the Commandants of various Army training
institutions, Commanders of various Army formations and units, and eminent
personalities from the civil society, amongst others. At the opening ceremony, there were
exhibitions of technological cum innovative products from various NA formations
and units, together with prominent partners of the Nigerian Army especially
civil manufacturers such as Lodoni and Proforce Manufacturing Company Limited. It was noted that a  medical outreach was also undertaken at
Yandonton Daji Community in Tsafe Local Government Area of the State, where the
COAS donated 5 wheelchairs to disabled persons in the community. Buratai, also presented 10,000
exercise books to Governor Matawalle, on behalf of NA for pupils in Zamfara
primary schools. The gesture was borne out of the
COAS genuine passion for educational development of the younger generation of
our nation. It will be recalled that Buratai has
recognizes the intrinsic value of quality education and has  indeed
contributed to the development of education in Nigeria, most especially through
the establishment of the first ever  Army University in Africa at Biu,
Borno state. The Army Chief, has also established
several Command Schools at both primary and Secondary level across the nation. The 5-day training week which is
themed: “Developing Local Capacity for Improved Delivery in Support of Nigerian
Army Operations”, is aimed at re-strategizing and repositioning the various
support services of NA in line with Buratai’s vision of “Building a
Professionally Responsive Nigerian Army in the Discharge of its Constitutional
Roles”.