#TrackNigeria The Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) has suspended three of its national executive members for alleged anti-party activities and forging of party documents. The officials are former National Secretary, Mr Gwada Abubakar, the National Financial Secretary, Mr Habu Aminchin, who was the Presidential flag-bearer of the party and the National Youth leader, Mr Eke Ken. Briefing newsmen in Abuja on Friday after its extraordinary NEC meeting, the Chairman of the party, Chief Frank Igwebuike said there was no faction in the party, adding that the party remained united. Igwebuike said that the decision was a bi-product of the disciplinary committee set up by the party and was ratified by the NEC in the presence of INEC official. “The national chairman has equally been given additional powers as the chief executive of the party, and no decision of the party will be executed without the approval of the party chairman, which must be put in writing. “The party has also taken a decision that all those who have left the party because of accident or any other reasons, their positions will be filled immediately. “It was a robust meeting and relationship was cordial throughout the NEC meeting. I wish all those who came from far and near including INEC safe trip back. “This is the first time INEC has attended and monitored our extraordinary congress meeting. “There is no faction in the party, you can see that INEC is here and this shows that this party doesn’t have two leaders. If you go to INEC office, the only name you will find there is Chief Frank Igwebuike as the national chairman,’’ he said. The PDM chairman said the petition before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal was withdrawn by the suspended party members with advise from other party members. He said it was necessary to withdraw the petition because the document used in filling the petition were all forged, adding that they could not stand the test of time. “The allegation that I don’t carry other members along in running of the party is baseless with no iota of truth. “There are different types of leadership style. if I don’t carry people along, you will not see members from different states for the NEC meeting. People from different states are all here. “It’s better to remove persons that will destroy the party; we cannot allow our party to be labelled party of forgers, insubordination and misappropriation of party funds. “I will not take that, if that is what makes people think I am autocratic, that is what I term discipline. “What we are here to do is to build a very strong party, where people are disciplined and show absolute loyalty,” he said. He assured that the party would come out stronger in 2023 with the new orientation and mobilisation with good party manifesto. (NAN) The newly registered Peoples Democratic Movement,PDM has revealed that it will not participate in the forthcoming Anambra governorship election .A statement by Alaba Yusuf,media advisor to its chairman said though at its meeting Mr. Dagogo Emanuel feared that not taking part would deprive the people the taste of good leadership… August 29, 2013 In "News" #TrackNigeria: The National Think Tank Committee (NTTC) and National Executive Committee (NEC) of the Action Alliance (AA) has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the party’s account from 2017 to date. Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar, the party’s Acting National Chairman made the dislosure while briefing newsmen… June 17, 2019 In "Anti-Graft" Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi, has sacked Mrs Patience Ogodo, Board Chairman of the Ebonyi Broadcasting Corporation (EBBC). Umahi’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Uzor in a statement Saturday, said the sack was sequel to Ogodo’s suspension as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees. Uzor alleged… December 15, 2018 In "News"