President
Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Daura, Katsina State, said the efforts by the
Federal Government will be redoubled to improve health facilities, equipment
and services in the country, listing people living in rural areas as top on
priority for better health services. The
President, who spoke at the commissioning ceremony of Nigerian Air Force
Reference Hospital in Daura, said the Federal Government had, in the last four
years, invested resources in the health sector, with increased budgetary
allocation moving from N259 billion (Two hundred and fifty nine billion naira
in 2015 to over N340 billion (Three hundred and forty billion naira) in 2018. “Accordingly,
significant strides have been made to life expectancy and reduced some of the
killer diseases associated with child and maternal mortality to less than 70
deaths per 100, 000 live births by the year 2030, as planned in the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals. “Despite
this, more efforts are needed to fully eradicate a wide range of diseases and
many persistent and emerging health issues in our society,’’ he said. President
Buhari said dependence on foreign countries for medical treatment can be
reduced by turning around the health sector in the country, noting that health
services in the rural areas deserved more attention. “To achieve
this, we must now redouble efforts to focus on providing more efficient funding
of the health sector, improve sanitation and hygiene, and increase access to
medical care in the rural areas in order to save lives of millions of
Nigerians. “There is
therefore no more auspicious time to commission this Reference Hospital than
now,’’ he added. President
Buhari commended the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar for
situating the Reference Hospital, with state-of-art medical equipment for
radio-diagnosis, cancer screening, dialysis, laboratory diagnosis and research,
in Daura to serve the aligning states and communities. “This
hospital will minimise the need for people in these areas to travel to Kano,
Kaduna, Abuja or even overseas to receive medical treatment. “I urge you
to maintain the highest standard and quality of services the military is known
for in attending to patients and the host community. Maintenance is central to
efficiency and satisfactory service delivery,’’ the President said. The
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Mrs Nuratu Batagarawa, said the
project was conceived and implemented with personnel of the military and the
community in mind to provide quality health services. In his
remarks, the Chief of Air Staff said the 60 bed capacity hospital had a total
of nine medical consultants, as well as 61 general medical practitioners and
dentists. “These
developments have significantly enhanced the capacity of the medical services
Branch to provide quality healthcare to our personnel,’’ he said. The Chief of
Air Staff also noted that the hospital had ultra-modern operating theatres, an
intensive care unit, medical laboratory, eye and dental clinics and a
physiotherapy department. President Muhammadu Buhari says efforts by the Federal Government will be redoubled to improve health facilities, equipment and services in the country, listing people living in rural areas as top on priority for better health services. Malam Garba Shehu, the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, in a… August 15, 2019 In "Health" The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, on Tuesday decried poor conditions of maternal and child health in Nigeria. Mrs Buhari expressed the concern at the inauguration of the 50-bed capacity Maternal and children clinic built and equipped by the Aisha Buhari Foundation in Daura, Katsina State. She said… December 13, 2017 In "Health" The Wife of Katsina State Governor, Hajiya Zakiya Masari, has presented 120 sewing machines, 80 spaghetti making machines and 80 bags of flour to women in Daura zone as part her women empowerment scheme. Masari, who presented the items to the beneficiaries in Daura on Saturday, said the gesture was… November 18, 2017 In "News"