President Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Zaria, Kaduna State, assured
Nigerians that his administration will not rest until it delivers on its
commitments on quality education, including investing more resources in the
sector and providing a conducive learning environment in the academia. A press release signed by Presidential Spokesman,Femi Adesina noted that
while speaking at the commissioning of the Post Graduate Centre of Excellence
built by the Central Bank of Nigeria at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, the
President said the Federal government has invested close to N1.3 trillion
towards the development of the education sector in the past 4 years, excluding
funds spent on overhead and personnel costs. Commending the CBN for providing the Centre, sited at the Samaru campus
of the institution, the President said: ‘‘By this exercise, we are building on the vision of the founder of this
great institution, Late and great Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto,
who, as Premier of Northern Nigeria, established this institution almost six
decades ago. ‘‘It is on record that this University has made giant contributions
towards the development of our nation and we remain grateful to the Founder of
this vision.’’ Expressing concern over the state of facilities in Nigerian universities,
due to long years of perennial funding challenges, the President promised that
his administration will continue to place premium on education at all levels. ‘‘It is no longer a secret that the state of facilities in our
universities and other institutions of higher learning has not kept pace with
the requirements of the ever-growing population of students and other
stakeholders or with modern methods of learning. ‘‘This has largely been due to the perennial funding challenge over the
years. As an administration, we are committed and determined to continue to
fund our vital institutions, even in the face of limited financial resources. ‘‘Let me reiterate here that this administration places much premium on
education at all levels, as it is the bedrock of society’s progress, and the
way to overcome poverty,’’ he said. The President expressed confidence that efforts at improving access to
quality education in tertiary institutions will enable young Nigerians to make
meaningful contributions towards the nation’s development. ‘‘The wealth of nations today is being shaped by investment in education
rather than emphasis on mineral resources. ‘‘Investment in education is a critical factor in driving innovation,
technological advancements and employment opportunities in advanced
economies,’’ he said.