By Our Correspondent #TrackNigeria –Ordinarily holiday period is meant  for rest and recreation but for boarding Students of Suleman Barau Technical College (SBTC) and Government Secondary School (GSS) both in  Suleja, Niger Sate, north-central Nigeria, the bitter memory of going back to their grossly dilapidated school hostels as well as poor feeding after the break is tainting their holiday feelings. It would be recalled that schools in
the state went on end of session holiday in July to resume early September. The two schools are notable
secondary education institutions in the state 
that has produced  prominent
leaders.  Sadly, after gaining prominence
as centres for qualitative education in the past both schools have been
witnessing steady decline in both teaching and infrastructural facilities of
late. SBTC was established in 1969 as
Suleman Barau Technical Teachers College (SBTTC) Suleja but later rechristened
Suleman Barau Technical College in the early 1990s. Newsdiaryonline had a chance meeting
with two hostellers during an on the spot assessment of the school compound.
One of them said that ‘‘we are staying with a friend in town to do menial jobs
to raise money for resumption,’’ while his colleague said  in a manner that connotes. ‘‘We need to raise something (money)
just add to what our parents will give us for resumption, because the school
does not feed us well,’’ the youngster who identified himself by an unpalatable
alias. According to him ‘‘Niger State
Government is not being fair to this school, some of our old boys have been
telling us about the good old days in the school.’’ Talk about ‘‘good old days in the
school may not stand rigorous scrutiny, as Newsdiaryonline could not find While the conversation ensued
passersby occasionally stared at the dilapidated hostel blocks. Newsdiaryonline
heard no fewer than four of them saying in pigeon English ‘‘na here people
children dey sleep’’ (is this where people’s children sleep?). It was observed
that because of the lack of perimetre fence around,  residents have turned most parts of the school
into a short cut road especially the backside of the hostel. This many say exposes the boarding
students to different forms of security risks. Newsdiaryonline gathered that
less than a year ago thieves stormed the hostel at night and disposed the
occupants of various amounts of money and other valuable items after beating
them mercilessly. Contrastingly, the three storey
hostel of Bishop James Yisa Memorial School Suleja (BJY) another school nearby
stands tall directly overlooking  the crumbling government owned SBTC,
thus creating an unhealthy divide between the appalling state of public schools
in Niger State and thriving Privately owned schools. Worried by the poor state of SBTC
Suleja a former Principal of the school according inside sources ‘‘took it upon
himself to make sure that there is enough power and water supplies to the
institution’’ and to that effect an electricity transformer as well a solar
power borehole was provided by the state government. Newsdiaryoline can confirm that
within the locality of the institution, SBTC can boast of the most reliable
power supply. At night fall when there is no power supply to neighbouring areas
including Comrade Aliyu, Turaki Streets amongst others, the school hides under
the cover of darkness creating an impression of wellness with its lightings.
But at dawn the school bounces back to its undignified look of worn out paints,
rusted corrugated roofing sheets, untarred and stony walkways. A former student of the school, who
simply identified himself as Abubakar said while he was in the Motor Vehicle
Mechanic (MVM), class there were ‘‘320’’ students  in class. For him the ‘‘teachers  of the school  are doing their best to train youths that can
compete favourably with their peers anywhere  in Nigeria, but the state of
facility in the school is posing a major hindrance.’’ Newsdiaryoline also witnessed the
overcrowded class rooms during an investigation visit to the school as students
were seen spilling out of the over filled class rooms. The situation is
creating great apathy in learning by students. A former hosteller who is currently in
Senior Secondary School (SSS) 2, said that there are no fewer than 2,000
students in the school. It is common place to see SBTC students loitering
around the school locality despite efforts by the authority to tackle the
growing tide of truancy amongst students. The situation is not too different
in Government Secondary School Suleja where the facilities are not only in poor
state but over stretched. Although, the issue of overcrowding is not as severe
as that of SBTC Suleja but they share great similarities in terms of poor
feeding and dilapidated hostels. Newsdiaryonline gathered that the last major facelift the school got is
over 20 years ago and was facilitated by an old boy of the institution late Dr.
Musa Inuwa, one time civilian governor of Niger State from January 1992 to
November 1993. It would be recalled that Inuwa who
died on January 16, 2010 at the age of 62 became governor of the state under
the military administration of former President Ibrahim Badamasi 
Babangida before he handed over to an interim government in August 1993. The transitional government which
was headed by Chief Ernest Shonekan was removed by a palace coup that brought
in the late General Sani Abacha  on November 17, 1993. The issue of neglect in educational
facilities in Nigeria cuts across all the three tiers of government in the
country. However, the scenarios which currently taking its toll on the quality
of education in the country is more  prevalent at states and local
government levels. According to the website ThoughtCo. 
‘‘overcrowding increases classroom discipline issues. Large classes packed with
students provide more opportunities for personality conflicts, tension, and
general disruptive behaviour. Even the best teachers find it difficult to
manage an overcrowded classroom successfully and can find themselves spending
more time managing their classroom than they do teaching.’’ Interestingly, the Niger State
Government is familiar with and appreciates the issue of inadequate facilities
in the general school system which critics say calls for declaration of a state
of emergency with a view to making conform to global best practices. In a historical overview of the
situation the state’s Transforming Education in Niger State (TENS) Programme,
Ministry of  Education, Science and Technology, Minna the state capital enunciated that , ‘‘the problems
facing the Niger State Educational system are immense, but are not
insurmountable. It will take considerable commitment, effort and the
involvement of all if the current situation is to be addressed. The problems
associated with the education system at all levels can be attributed to many
factors which have not been properly addressed over the years. It will
therefore take time to resolve the numerous dimensions of this very complex
situation in the educational system.’’ Information gathered from the TENS
Programme also indicated that, ‘‘during the last administration, Niger state’s
attempt to address the problems within the education system were guided by a
number of policies and documents. These included:The Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs); National and States Education for All (EFA) Plans; National
Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS); Niger State Economic
Empowerment and Development Strategy (NSEEDS). The main objectives of the Niger
State Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NSEEDS) was to strengthen
the existing development strategies and plans by identifying priorities that
would lead to growth promotion and the reduction of poverty (SESP, 2008) ‘‘However, Niger state missed the
Education for All goals of achieving gender parity at primary and secondary
school education levels by 2012. It also missed the achievements of the EF goal
and the millennium development goals. ‘‘A 10 year State Education Sector
Plan (SESP) and a shorter 3 – year State Education Sector Operational Plan
(SESOP) was developed as tools by the last administration to aid the education
reform on the basis of a sector-wide analysis. The main thrusts of these
documents were as follows: Ensuring planned development of education; Taking a
long-term and holistic view of the sector; Aligning educational development
more intimately with other sectors of development; Focusing on strategic
challenge areas of educational development; Prioritising high impact areas -Engaging stakeholders in policy
dialogues and ensuring the ownership of education development endeavours; Channelling
resources to areas of greatest need building capacity for effective and
efficient service delivery. According  to the  information gathered from the Transforming
Education in Niger State Programme ‘‘Unfortunately, the proposed changes to the
education system these plans sought to achieve were not realized’’. The Niger State Education Strategic
Plan (SEPS) covers the period 2009 – 2018 with the following policy objectives:Policy
Objective 1: Improving access and expanding opportunities;Policy Objective 2:
Assuring quality and relevance of education provision Policy Objective 3: Improving
educational planning and management; Policy Objective 4: Assuring sustainable
funding and improved financial management. Little has been achieved in
implementing these policy objectives for a number of reasons mainly attributed
to the inadequate provision of financial resources. Sadly, in this vein boarding
students of Suleman Barau Technical College  (SBTC) and Government
Secondary School (GSS) all in Suleja, headquarters of Suleja Local Government
Area and the economic nerve centre of Niger State will resume in September to
continue schooling and stay in  environment that makes them objects of
pity. However, in what looks like an
approach to redeem its battered image in the educational sector,
Newsdiaryonline findings revealed the state government recently renovated the
Government Science College, Izom, to make teaching and learning
conducive. Besides, the quality of food served
to hostel students in the school is far better than what their counterparts in
SBTC Suleja and GSS Suleja. Many are hoping that the good tidings will be extended to SBTC  and GSS  both in Suleja.