A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mrs Mojisola Alli-Macaulay, on Wednesday, lauded Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for being the first state governor to include 14 women in his cabinet. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the number of women in the state executive council, who was inaugurated on Monday by Sanwo-Olu was the highest in the history of the state. Alli-Macaulay, one of the three female lawmakers in the Assembly, representing Amuwo-Odofin Constituency I, told NAN that the step gladdened the hearts of women and it had become inspiration to others. She said: “I am joyous, as this is the first time in the history of democratic process in Lagos that we have 14 women emerging to become members of this executive cabinet. I am so glad, it is a wonderful news. “This landmark achievement that Gov. Sanwo-Olu has registered in the minds of millions of women all over the federation is not a celebration for women of Lagos State alone, but a yardstick of hope for women of other states. “I want to appreciate the leadership of the All Progressives Congress, most especially of the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the new governor for taking the impressive step in changing the narrative. “A lot of women happen to be pathfinders in terms of electoral processes during elections; women are all out to cast their votes. They work assiduously during campaign periods”. According to her, women go through a lot of assaults, face a lot of domestic challenges and never relent in their “wholehearted participation”₩ during electoral processes. The lawmaker described the state as a real progressive state that set the pace for other states to follow the new idea. Alli-Macaulay lauded the leadership of the state for acting differently and responding to the yearnings of women. “If you want things said, get men to say it; if you want things done, get the women to do it. Women are natural multipliers and divine incubators”. The lawmaker lauded Sanwo-Olu for not turning his back against the promises he made during campaigns for women. She, however, advised the women in the cabinet not to disappoint the trust and confidence reposed in them while not allowing their family and marriages to suffer. The lawmaker added: “I just want to urge them to please put their very best into whatever they have been assigned to do. “The married ones should not allow their marital responsibilities to lag behind. I want them to create a balance between their official duties and their marital responsibilities”. She said that the country needed more women in politics to move forward, urging men to release and support their wives. On the plight of women generally, the lawmaker urged the governor to give adequate attention to the cause of women through the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. The lawmaker, who expressed confidence in the competence, experience of the new Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Mrs Bolaji Dada, said Lagos women needed more empowerment. “We have so many women who are not yet covered. Women should not relent in their push to be emancipated, they should keep on pushing and there is going to be a balance eventually. “I want to urge the governor to come up with more empowerment programmes that can cover a wide spread of women being emancipated at a go. “When women are empowered, you have empowered a nation. This is why we want more women to be empowered,” she added. NAN reports that Gov. Sanwo-Olu on Tuesday inaugurated 35 commissioners and special advisers into the state executive council out of which 12 were women. One of the three governor’s nominees, who were declined confirmation by the House on Monday, was also a woman making the number 13. NAN also recalls that he governor had earlier appointed a woman, Mrs Folashade Jaji, as the Secretary to the State Government bringing the number of women to 14 altogether. (NAN)