The acting
Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Mr Ibrahim
Magu, has urged Nigerian youths to hold their leaders accountable for misuse of
the nation’s resources by joining in the fight against corruption. Magu gave the charge at the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC,
Orientation Camp in Kubwa, Abuja, on Tuesday August 27, 2019, through Ms.
Rashidat Abdullahi, an officer of the Public Affairs Directorate of the
Commission, who represented him at the event. While presenting a paper entitled: “EFCC and the Role of Youths
in Curbing Corruption”, the EFCC chair lamented how corrupt elites in the
corridors of power denied Nigerians the greater good of governance by cornering
the nation’s resources to themselves and their families adding that the youths
should stop the endless blame game and hold their leaders accountable. Magu reiterated the need for the development of idealistic and
morally guided youths, who are stepping into positions of authority, explaining
that gone are the days when young people were seen to be puritanical in
reasoning but that such sound approach to life seems to have changed. He expressed sadness over the increasing number of young persons
in positions of authority who are not showing any sign that the youths are
themselves immune from corruption, adding that the youths have found fantastic
ways to manipulate the system. He therefore called on the youths to shun acts
of corruption, especially ones relating to cyber crimes. The Anti-corruption Czar announced that the Commission has from
January 2019 till date, secured over 700 convictions on cases bordering on
money laundering, advance fee fraud, bank fraud and other economic and financial
crimes. “Despite this milestone, the Commission realizes that enduring
success in the fight against economic crimes, including corruption can only be
achieved when all stakeholders embrace this important fight. One critical group
of stakeholders are the youths”, he said. He enjoined the corps members to join the anti-graft fight by
enrolling as members of the EFCC-NYSC Integrity Club CDS group, as foot
soldiers in the fight against corruption. “It is no use lamenting that things are not right with our
country. We are inviting you to lend a hand in helping us build a society where
there is respect for law and order and where impunity is a thing of the past”,
he added. “If you see something that has failed a simple test of integrity
going on, you should say something and EFCC will do something”. While fielding questions from the corps members, the
acting Chairman assured the NYSC members of protection and safety in reporting
cases of financial and economic crime to the Commission and urged them to bring
credible information on corrupt persons.