#TrackNigeria –Leader of proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu has offered N1m reward for credible information on overseas travel itinerary of Igbo leaders, especially governors from the zone. The IPOB leader announced this in a live broadcast on the rogue radio station, Radio Biafra on Sunday night. He was speaking on the recent attack by some of his members on Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Germany and the spare of killings and kidnappings in the southeast. He said a member of the group had made the money available for credible information anytime governors of the Southeast and other leaders from the zone are traveling. “So if you are working in any Government House in Southeast and you know which city in the world the governors is going to be, inform us so hat we will mobilize for him and you will be rewarded with N1m,” he declared. In the 87- minute broadcast,  Kanu said the grudge of the group with the governors is that they proscribed the group. “They and not the Federal Government of Nigerian proscribed IPOB. “They said they proscribed IPOB to douse rising tension in the region. What caused the tension, because the Milliary raided my house in Umuahia,” Kanu said. He also accused them of secretly approving the RUGA settlement in the Southeast. On the attack on former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekeremadu, the IPOB leader said the senator connived with the governors to proscribed his group. “They also brought the Army to raid my House in Umuahia. How many times has he spoken against the killings and kidnappings happening in his own state? “He  went to celebrate New Yam Festival in Germany when his people are being killed and our women being raped. Where did they get the new Yam because there is none in Igboland since all the farmlands have been destroyed by herdsmen”. The IPOB Leader also accused Ekweremadu of embezzling money budgeted for construction of Enugu-Port-Harcourt Expressway by former President Goodluck Jonathan administration. The Nation could not independently verify his accusations against Mr Ekweremadu. Apart from the Governors, Mr Kanu listed others on the group’s overseas watchlist to include Ohaneze Ndigbo President-General, Nnia Nwodo and Chief of Army Staff, Tukur Buratai. On Nwodo, Kanu accused him of accusing Igbo youths of carrying out the recent killings, kidnappings and other criminal activities in the Southeast especially in Enugu State. For Buratai, Kanu said the group will never forgive him for his role in various killings and atrocities allegedly committed by the Military in the southeast He warned them to steer clear of any foreign country for their own good. “We have nominated 5 persons each in every country or the world who are ready to be arrested and be jailed for this purpose. Many of us have been killed so what is there in going to jail”, he said. He praised the outspokenness of Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe and former Aviation Minister, Femi Fani- Kayode. “We campaigned for Abaribe’s re-election because he always spoke the truth every time about what is happening in the country and today he is the highest political office holder in Igboland”. “Fani Kayode is not an Igbo man but he always stands for the truth and so we have enormous respect for him”. Mr Kanu also claimed that the Milliary is beginning another Operation Python dance in the Southeast tomorrow (Monday) in the South East which is targeted at his group. By The Nation