#TrackNigeria: The Federal Government of Nigeria recently
constituted a Committee to facilitate the recovery of Six Hundred and Fourteen
billion Naira (N614 billion) given to thirty five states of the federation on
budget support. Imo, expectedly, is one of the states that
benefitted from the gesture, while Chief Rochas Okorocha held sway as Executive
Governor of Imo State. The state received Twenty Six billion, Eight Hundred and
Six million Naira (N26.806 billion). According
to a 2016 report by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related
Offences Commission (ICPC) which monitored how states spent the bailout funds
given to them by the Federal Government, funds released to Imo State were
diverted. The report, which was signed by Mustapha Hussain on behalf of the
Commissioner in charge of Public Enlightenment of ICPC also indicted Benue
State. President
Buhari had approved the funds to assist states that were unable to pay months
of salary arrears and pensions. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who heads the
National Economic Council, had explained that the loan is repayable at an
interest rate of nine percent over a 20-year period and it was meant for the
singular purpose of paying the backlog of salaries. As
at the time former Governor Okorocha left office on May 29, 2019, pensioners
were owed nearly three years of arrears, workers in Imo State received seventy
percent of their salaries for about three years, while many were owed several
months arrears of salary. This is a clear indication that the funds may have
been mismanaged, validating ICPC’s report. The
ICPC report was released less than a month after the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission –EFCC arrested the then Principal Secretary to the Governor,
Dr. Paschal Obi and two others – Uzoho Casmir and Iheoma Kenneth, identified by
the Commission as the Director of Finance and Treasurer, respectively. According
to the ICPC report, “Imo State applied for and received bailout funds of
N26,806,430,000.00 from the Central Bank of Nigeria, which were domiciled with
two commercial Banks namely Fidelity and Zenith banks. In the course of
analysis, it was discovered that some transfers were made into certain Imo
State Government accounts, which are not related to salaries and emoluments as
follows: N2bn paid into a Government Account; N2bn paid into an Imo State
Project account; N2bn transferred into microfinance bank; and a management fee
of N21,017,810.00 was paid into an unspecified account.” Former
Governor Okorocha had in a public function in the state, announced the then
Secretary to the State Government, Sir Jude Ejiogu, his son in-law that also
doubled as his Chief of Staff, Uche Nwosu and others as constituting the
committee to manage the bailout funds. That was the last that one heard. I join
well-meaning Imo people to ask former Governor Rochas Okorocha and his allies
what they did with the bailout fund. When
Governor Emeka Ihedioha recently raised the alarm over the existence of about
Two Hundred and Fifty different Bank accounts in the name of the state
government under Okorocha, many probably did not understand his worries. With
the ICPC report on how the bailout funds were diverted and the different
accounts the monies were transferred to, the coast is getting clearer. By the
way, who were the signatories to the various accounts opened in the name of the
State Government? Available reports show that many of the said accounts were
managed by the former Governor’s relatives, allies and friends that ordinarily
should have no business managing government accounts. Now
that the Treasury Singular Account (TSA) has been introduced in Imo, it is
easier to monitor and control movement of state funds. One
of the many other cases of mismanagement of funds is that of the Paris club
refunds. Just before the 2019 general elections, the Economic and Financial
Crimes Commission- EFCC said it froze N5bn funds belonging to the Imo State
Government because “…Rochas Okorocha was spending too much on election.” The
EFCC stated that N8bn Paris Club loan refunded to the state for the payment of
salaries was mismanaged by Okorocha. The EFCC’s Zonal Head for South East,
Usman Imam said their timely intervention saved the state over N5bn that would
have been deployed in vote buying by the Okorocha administration during the
last elections. Imam
said that about N8bn from Paris Club refund bailout meant for payment of
workers’ salaries was kept by the government, only to begin spending it
frivolously on the eve of the elections. Considering
the way the bailout funds and even the Paris refunds were mismanaged, one is
forced to ask- who repays the bailout funds for Imo? Should Governor Emeka
Ihedioha use the meager resources that will hardly meet the needs of governance
in the state to repay funds stolen by the gang that mismanaged Imo up till May
29, 2019? Is
there any reason why the country’s anti-corruption agencies are being slow in
bringing all those that almost stole the state to death to justice? It
is common knowledge that those involved stole so much; enough to derail the
course of justice and compromise the law enforcement and judicial system. But,
can the law enforcement agencies and the country’s judiciary stand tall? Again,
allowing criminals to enjoy their loot makes them negative role models and
enables them interfere in the process of their own investigation. Governor
Emeka Ihedioha must intensify efforts to recover all that were stolen from Imo
State by the last administration. The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Independent Corrupt Practices
and Other Related Offences Commission – ICPC must rise to the challenge of
ensuring that there is no safe haven for all those that have stolen the future
of generations yet unborn in Imo State and beyond. Imo
State needs every kobo stolen from the state and all hands must be on deck to
recover all and bring the perpetrators to justice. Imo citizens must rise to
name and shame all those involved in the looting of our collective purse. Ultimately,
former Governor Rochas Okorocha and his team must be made to explain to ndi Imo
and Nigerians at large, what they did with the Bailout and Paris funds. All Imo
sons and daughters must join the campaign to compel Okorocha to account for his
stewardship. The
time to act is now! Onye
kpara nku ahuhu kporo ngwere oru!!!!!!!! Dr. Walter Duru is a Communication Teacher and Public
Affairs analyst. He can be reached on: walterchike@gmail.com