Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has approved the appointments of seven new Permanent Secretaries and senior officials for five agencies.  According to a  statement signed by Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser, Media and Communication, the governor reappointed Umma Aboki as Executive Secretary of the Kaduna Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA) and approved new deployments for permanent secretaries. Among the new appointees is Dr. Aliyu Jafaru, who was previously nominated as a commissioner. The  statement from Sir Kashim Ibrahim House listed the following as new Permanent Secretaries: 1. Amina Adamu 2. Phoebe Sukai Yayi 3. Bashir Umar Lere 4. Sabiu Sani 5. Dr. Haliru Musa Soba 6. Amina Abdullahi 7. Muhammed Bashir Umar The following persons were appointed to various agencies: 1. Dr. Aliyu Jafaru, Deputy Director-General, KADGIS. 2. Engr. Aliyu Salihu, Acting Director-General, Kaduna State Public Procurement Authority (KADPPA), subject to confirmation by the Kaduna State House of Assembly. 3. Engr. Ahmed Munir, Director-General, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASSA) 4. Abdullahi Sani, Chairman, SUBEB 5. Mubarak Mohammed, Permanent Member, Project Management, SUBEB 6. Dr. Christy Alademerin, Permanent Member, Human Resource Management, SUBEB 7. Umma Aboki is reappointed Executive Secretary, KADIPA. Following the new appointments, Permanent Secretaries in Kaduna State are now deployed as follows: 1. Nuhu Isiyaku Buzun​​​-Cabinet Affairs 2. Adamu Mohammed Mansur​​-Human Services & Social Development 3. Stephen Joseph​​​-Environment 4. Habiba A. Shekarau​​​-Housing & Urban Development 5. Mahmoud Yamusa​​​-Planning & Budget 6. Aisha K. Mohammed​-​​General Services 7. Musa Adamu​​​​-Local Government 8. Ibrahim S. Jere-​​​Public Service Office 9. Mohammed Mahmud Shuaibu​-Health 10. Murtala Dabo​​​​-Finance 11. Chris Umar​​​​-Justice 12. Umar K. Ibrahim-​​​Sports Development 13. Amina Adamu​​​​-SUBEB 14. Phoebe Sukai Yayi-​​​Education 15. Bashir Umar Lere​​​-Public Works & Infrastructure 16. Sabiu Sani​​​​-Agriculture 17. Dr. Haliru Musa Soba-​​​Business, Innovation & Technology 18. Amina Abdullahi​​​-Establishment 19. Muhammad Bashir Umar-​​Civil Service Commission 20. Umma K. Ahmed​​​DG, Quality Assurance Authority