By
Ibrahim Mohammed The
Director General, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brigadier General
Shuaibu Ibrahim has reassured Nigerians of the scheme’s commitment towards
finding a missing corps member, Value Eromosele Akhigbe, saying members of the
public should assist with information that will facilitate his safe return back
home. Shuaibu,
stated this on Thursday in an address at a media parley in Abuja, the nation’s
capital. The
Director General recalled that he was ‘‘in Uromi, Edo State, to reassure’’ the
missing corps member’s family of efforts being made to ensure that ‘‘he returns
unhurt.’’ Besides,
‘‘the unfortunate loss of Precious Owolabi who was shot in the line of duty
recently was a shocking one for the NYSC family. As we share in the grief of
his immediate family. I undertook a trip to them in Zaria to express our
heart-felt condolences. ‘‘Also
comforting was the gesture of President Muhammadu Buhari who was represented by
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, accompanied by the Governor of Kaduna State,
Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai on a condolence visit to the bereaved family. We that
the Federal Government for standing by the family in their moment of
grief.’’ The
deceased corps member was attached to Channels Television Station in Abuja, for
the mandatory (except on exemption) one year National Youth Service Corps
scheme when he was shot dead recently, while covering a protest by members of
now proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) to press for the release of
their leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. A
senior police officer was also killed in the bloody protest that left many
scampering for safety. Ibrahim,
also stated that ‘‘another corps member that got missing in Jigawa State was
found two weeks ago.’’ The
scheme which is mandatory for Nigerian graduates of regular Degree and Higher
National Diploma (HND) programmes, both foreign and locally trained, who are 30
years old and below according to him is ‘‘in continuous liaison with various
security agencies with a view to ensuring the safety of corps members wherever
they are serving’’ in the West African country of 201 million people. He
further said that scheme accords to priority to the security and general
welfare of corps members as well as committed to the provision of enabling
environment for them to render selfless service to the nation. In
this vein, he stated that ‘‘over the years we have been able to secure the
review of corps members allowance each time there is increment in the
remuneration of civil servants,’’ but when asked during a question and answer
section at the media parley to state timeline for the implementation of the
newly approved N30,000 minimum wage by the Federal Government, the Direction
General said, that will be done as soon as it is ‘‘transmitted’’ to the scheme. For
her part, the NYSC Director, Press and Public Relations unit, Mrs. Adenike
Adeyemi, in a remark pointed out that the scheme ‘‘over the years has become a
household name in Nigeria with visible impacts in the socio-economic
development of the country.’’ As
an organization that values its critical stakeholders, Mrs. Adeyemi noted that
‘‘we have continued to enlist the support of our media partners to showcase the
scheme’s efforts and contributions towards advancing our dear country to
greater height.’’ Brigadier
General Shuaibu Ibrahim  is the 18th
Chief Executive of NYSC assumed office on May 10, 2019. He listed the
achievements of the scheme to include: fostering of national unity and
integration through the policy of deploying corps members to states other than
state of origin, educational development through posting to schools, hospitals
and community development services amongst others. He
pointed out that ‘‘under my watch’’ unqualified person will not be mobilized
for the scheme in which 4,644,804 (four million six hundred and forty-four
thousand eight hundred and four) Nigerians have participated in since its
inception. The
scheme was established in the year 1973, by Decree No. 24, later repealed by
Decree and replaced by Decree No. 51 in 1993, which is now known as National
Youth Service Corps Act, Cap N84, law of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday urged family members of the deceased corps member, Precious Owolabi to accept the will of God in good faith. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Owolabi was killed during a protest by members of Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) otherwise known as Shiites… July 28, 2019 In "News" By Danlami Nmodu #TrackNigeria -- Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd)  said on Wednesday  that  collaboration between the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) and  the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC)  has given credibility to Nigeria’s elections.  Gowon made this  assertion in an address delivered on his behalf by… July 25, 2019 In "Featured" The Director-General of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, has debunked the information that corps members would start receiving the new minimum wage as their monthly allowance this month. Brig. Gen. Ibrahim told PRNigeria that the NYSC management was yet to receive any directive from the… July 17, 2019 In "News"