In the middle of the 2nd
World War in 1941, the Johannesburg Star
published an editorial which accused Hendrik Verwoerd of “falsifying war news
in Germany’s favour.” Verwoerd was the editor of Die Transvaler, the mouthpiece of the Broederbond. Born originally in Amsterdam to Dutch parents in 1901,
Verwoerd migrated with his parents to South Africa in 1902, receiving his first
degree in Philosophy from the University of Stellenbosch in 1922, a Ph.D. in
1924 and becoming a Professor at just 26 in 1927. In 1937, he would become the
editor of Die Transvaler, from where
he would advance rabidly anti-Semitic, anti-black, pro-Aryan worldview. In response to The Star’s editorial, Verwoerd sued for libel, asking for £15,000
in damages. Dismissing Verwoerd’s claim on 13 July 1943, Justice Phillip Millin
ruled: There have been proved two very grave
cases of false news in reckless disregard of whether it was true or false; six
cases, on the whole less serious but still clear cases of falsification, where
news, originally correctly reported, was falsely restated for the purpose of
editorial comment; and two cases in which news was falsified by means of
misleading headlines. Rather than damage Verwoerd’s political
career, this episode may have spurred it. In 1950 he became Minister for Native
Affairs in the Afrikaner government of Prime Minister, Daniel Malan, before
rising to the office of Prime Minister eight years later in 1958. As Justice Millin pointed out, there
are effectively three categories of information that could pass for “fake”.
These are “false news” or news published “in reckless disregard of whether it
was true or false”; falsification, “where news originally reported is falsely
restated”; and falsification of news by means of misleading headlines, or what
would today be known as click-baiting. All of these are characterized by one
common thread – an intent to mislead or misrepresent. Notwithstanding what appears to be the
considerable antiquity of false news, the Daily
Telegraph in London claimed on 3 July, 2019 that “‘fake news’ was not a term many people used four years ago, but it
is now seen as one of the greatest threats to democracy, free debate and
the Western order.” Yet, merely a year before that, on 11 February 2018, Kenan
Malik, writing in the Guardian, had
reminded us that “fake news has a long history.” The intent to
mis-lead or desire to damage has always been inherent in the character of false
news. Four days before the UK
general election on 25 October,1924, the Daily Mail published a letter allegedly signed by
Grigori
Zinoviev, president of the Comintern, calling on the British left to mobilise
“sympathetic forces” in the Labour Party to support an Anglo-Soviet
treaty and encourage “agitation-propaganda” (agitprop) in the British
armed forces. What would come to be
known as the “Zivoniev Letter” cost Labour’s first Prime Minister, Ramsay
MacDonald, the election in a Tory landslide, returning Stanley Baldwin to
office in his place. In February 1999, the Guardian
in London showed that the “Zivoniev Letter” was in fact a dirty trick by the
MI6 against Labour. The UK Parliament’s Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee Report on Disinformation and “Fake News” issued on St. Valentine’s
Day in 2019 suggests that the issue now is not the age of the idea of false
news but its scale. There are two dimensions to this scale. One is geo-spatial.
In the words of the Committee, “[t]his activity has taken on new forms
and has been hugely magnified by information technology and the ubiquity of
social media.” The other refers to its political functionality. As Michiko
Kakutani points out in his 2018 book, The
Death of Truth, “fake news” is now an epithet used to “discredit journalism”
that political higher-ups find “threatening or unflattering.” As a formulation, “fake news”
conflates three different concepts with different consequences. One is mistake.
Journalism, as a human enterprise conducted under extreme time pressures is
fraught with risks of mistake. The right response to mistake when it is
discovered is acknowledgement and correction. But under the hyper-populist
pressures of digital politics, mistake today is increasingly criminalized as
“fake news”. Two, there is propaganda. Usually, untruths
and falsehood would not be acceptable as news. Sometimes, however, especially
in times of extreme national emergency, they may serve a limited function. In
the 2nd World War, around the Tehran Conference in 1943, British
Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, famously declared that “[i]n war-time, truth is so precious that she should always be attended by a
bodyguard of lies.” Countries at war and their armies have always exercised
military latitude with facts. Disinformation, mis-information and psychological
operations are as old as war itself. Three, there is
false news. Quite clearly, this has some antiquity. The UK Parliamentary
Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee acknowledged that “[w]e have always
experienced propaganda and politically-aligned bias, which purports to be
news.” Yet, ‘fake news’ was one of
Collins Dictionary’s Words of the
Year in 2017, somehow suggesting that it is a new concept or new word. It isn’t. As political
currency, “fake news” corrodes leadership accountability. Quite clearly,
government, senior politicians and their partisans are the people who have the
most to gain and lose from deploying false news or dismissing what they dislike
as “fake”. They enjoy impunity for such misconduct, which makes them unconvincing
when they call for it to be punished merely because political adversaries are
involved. As is evident with many contemporary political leaders around the
world, a career in political falsehood can be very rewarding these days. The
privileging of “fake news” as political epithet itself shows how the digital
ecosystem has changed political expression. Digital communication is underpinned
by an intimacy and immediacy that lends itself to polarity, aided often by anonymity
which is the opposite of what exists in analogue, hard-copy reporting. Digital
posts can have the frisson of face-to-face confrontation, largely unmediated by
editorial judgement. The result, quite often, is “a well-documented ‘online
disinhibition effect’, a behavioral distortion caused by the absence of social
signals that surround analogue communication”, which as Raphael Baehr points
out “can cause people to abandon empathy, and lose impulse control.” This leads
to breakdown in the implicit civic bargains that in a different age underwrote
political expression before the digital revolution. Complaints about
“fake news”, therefore, reflect contemporary tribalization of news between
auto-identifying constituencies of the righteous and the despicable, an us and
them tendency that breeds what former British Prime Minister, John Major, has
called “the unreasoning antipathy of the extremes” in which “reasonable voices”
are increasingly “drowned out by the raucous din of the loudest.” This is the
rationale for the political economy of troll farms. But, far from an excuse for
more authoritarianism, what this new ecosystem needs is a new bargain on civic
manners to underpin remodeled ethos of political expression. A
Co-Convenor of Nigeria Mourns,
Odinkalu works with the Open Society
Foundations