#TrackNigeria — Nigeria has reaffirmed its unwavering
commitment to production adjustments agreed upon under the Declaration of
Cooperation (DoC) between member countries of the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Non-OPEC Countries at the last Ministerial
Meeting of what is known as OPEC Plus, held on July 2, 2019, Vienna, Austria. Nigeria’s Representatives on the OPEC Economic Commission Board
and Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC),
Mallam Mele Kyari, made this known in a statement issued Wednesday in Abuja. According to the statement signed by the OPEC Representative,
Nigeria is totally committed to full compliance with the agreement reached by
the parties to the DoC. “Right now we are not only committed to the agreement but we
have elevated our attitude towards it to the point of complete devotion to the
adjustments and we urge other parties to follow suit,” the OPEC Rep
stated. Kyari expressed strong optimism that the momentary and
artificially induced bearish trends would naturally correct itself based on the
strong market fundamentals which have remained steadfast despite the price
slid. He enthused that with a visible steady decline in commercial
stock overhang propelled by healthy demand, it is only logical for all
advocates of oil price stability like the OPEC Plus allies to comply strictly
with the agreed production adjustments. He concluded that with the increasing volatility of the oil market,
it has become commonsensical for Nigeria and all other parties to the agreement
to entrench an attitude of unwavering devotion to the deal anchored on full and
timely conformity to their obligations. Nigeria has reaffirmed its commitment to production adjustments agreement under the Declaration of Cooperation (DoC). The agreement was reached between member countries of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Non-OPEC Countries. Nigeria’s Representatives on the OPEC Economic Commission Board and Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation,… August 14, 2019 In "Business" Russia and other non-members of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) have agreed to join OPEC in raising oil production output by one million barrels per day (mb/d) from July 2018. The Minister of Energy and Industry of United Arab Emirates (UAE) Mr Suhail Al Mazrouei, made the decision known… June 23, 2018 In "Oil & Gas" #TrackNigeria Mr Salvador Fernandez, the President, Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) on Monday applauded the improving oil market conditions being recorded since January.  Fernandez made his thoughts known in Vienna at the opening of the 176th meeting of the bloc while welcoming delegates to the conference. OPEC president  The… July 1, 2019 In "Business"