The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, were among dignitaries that attended the wedding ceremony of Fatima Abubakar, daughter of Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar III,  in Sokoto. The bride Fatima was given out in marriage to the son of former Bauchi state Governor, Malam Isa Yuguda, Mahmood at N50,000, bride price. Seventeen aircrafts which transported dignitaries to the event, landed at Sultan Abubakar III international airport Sokoto. Mustapha and Kyari represented President Muhammadu Buhari, at the occasion held at Sultan Bello Mosque, Sokoto. The marriage was solemnised according to Islamic rites led by Chief Imam of Sultan Bello Mosque, Sheikh Malami Akwara, while prayers were offered by Chief Justice of the Federation, Justice Muhammad Tanko and Chief Imam, National Mosque, Prof. Shehu Galadanchi among others. The bride was represented by Emir of Gwandu, Alhaji Muhammadu Bashar,while the groom was represented by the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwan Adamu, during the solemisation rite. Among the prominent personalities that attended the wedding were popular business moguls, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Alhaji Dahiru Mangal, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr Muhammad Adamu, Accountant General of the Federation, Mr Ahmed, former Bauchi state Governor, Alhaji Adamu Mu’azu and former Sokoto state Governor, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa Other dignitaries included, governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state and governors of Imo, Delta, Zamfara, Plateau, Osun, Kebbi and Adamawa states. Among royal fathers that graced the occasion, were Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, along with Emirs of Maradun, Argungu and many others. Special prayers were conducted by Sarkin Malaman Sokoto, Sheikh Buhari Sirdawa, as well as a prominent Islamic scholar from Ghana, Sheikh Shehu Zaruku. Speaking at the end of wedding Fatiha, father of the groom and former Bauchi state governor, Isa Yuguda said, Bauchi and Sokoto, have long existing cordial relationship and the present marriage would surely rejuvenate it. Yuguda explained that Sultanate Council in the past appointed Emir of Bauchi as Chief Commander of the Caliphate. He said distance should not be a barrier for youths and incoming generations to consummate marriages, stressing that their forefathers trekked bare footed from Sokoto to Bauchi. He expressed optimism that the marriage between his son and daughter of the Sultan will be a blessing, and prayed for Allah’s protection and guidance over them. (NAN)