Nigerians should be
appreciating the “climate change” that has taken place in the National Assembly
coinciding with the inauguration of the 9th Assembly with Senator
Ahmed Lawan as Senate President and Femi Gbajabiamila as Speaker, House of
Representatives, respectively. From the smooth and amicable proceedings that
produced the new leaders of the legislature, it was evident that a new
dispensation devoid of crisis-prone intrigues was firmly in place and this is
what democracy for good governance envisaged. In an inaugural speech, the
president of the 9th National Assembly, Ahmed Lawan promised to be fair to all
his colleagues irrespective of political, ethnic or religious affiliations and
work to ensure best global parliamentary practice. He promised to run a Senate
that would be responsive to the needs of the masses. Lawan who is not new to
parliamentary business must be speaking from experience of the turbulence that
plagued the 8th Assembly, when the Saraki-led National Assembly, held the
Executive to ransom and frustrated Government business. It was glaring to every
discerning mind that Saraki’s posture towards the Executive slowed the pace of development.
Lawan has decided to avoid such undesirable tendencies with a promise to ensure
a Senate for the people, which can only be achieved when the Executive also
operates smoothly to deliver the dividends of democracy. An early manifestation of
this is the speedy confirmation by the Senate of the appointment of Mr Aliyu
Abubakar, as a non-executive commissioner on the board of the National
Communications Commission. Mr Aliyu Abubakar, an indigene of Bauchi State, was
re-nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari despite his earlier rejection for
the position by 8th National Assembly. An attempt by some senators to halt
Abubakar’s confirmation was this time around averted by the Senate President.
Also confirmed same day were other appointments made by the Executive including
Prof. Habu Galadima as the substantive Director-General, National Institute for
Policy and Strategic Studies in Jos. The recent screening
process for ministerial nominees was additional evidence of a welcome departure
from the rancorous partisanship and divide-and-rule manipulative leadership
that marred critical proceedings on strategic national issues, turning blind
eyes to the negative impact on legitimate aspirations of Nigerians for
accelerated development on all fronts with all hands on deck. Speaker of the Federal
House of Representatives also identified himself and committed his colleagues
to a positive transformation in the posture and content of proceedings when he
declared at his inauguration that “ Our country is presently confronted with a
myriad of problems and it is our responsibility as members of this institution
to set aside political, ideological and other differences that may distract us
from the assignment the Nigerian people have sent us here to perform. Whatever
political party each one of us may belong, we must be conscious of the fact
that Nigerians are truly desirous of good governance and are looking to us to
be the agents that will through meaningful legislation combat security,
poverty, corruption and other problems and contradictions that have held our
country back and stunted our development”. While we commend the entire
membership of the 9th Assembly for this patriotic turn of events, it
is now incumbent on Nigerians to demonstrate the confidence they reposed in
their respective members of the Assembly, by channeling all their grievances
and agitations to the Assembly, which is the only recognized institution in a
democracy for citizens to ventilate their feelings and frustrations and seek
attention and redress. This call is particularly
necessary in view of the increasing tendency for the creation of so-called
“pressure groups” for the purpose of venting agitations and expressing views
rather than taking advantage of the national legislature which is empowered not
only to listen to such voices but to legislate appropriately to resolve the
issues in contention. From letter-writing
statesmen going public with matters solely for political propaganda purposes we
now have others positioning themselves as ‘leaders of thought’, canvassing
ethnic or geo-political aspirations and grievances, or summoning meetings under
their NGOs to issue communiqués on their deliberations all of which have no
binding effect on government or the legislature. Most culpable for the
deliberate by-passing of the constitutionally-approved institutions and
procedures for pursuing the resolution of grievances or agitating for reforms
are those who absurdly call themselves “pro-democracy activists” but always
prefer confrontational street protests that undermine national security. Most
of them are urban groups with unverifiable mandates, sponsored by agents of
foreign interests, to create chaos and destabilize the government. Even the lingering issue of
“restructuring” which means different things to different people but generally
requires constitutional amendments and new legislation to  be actualized, must be forwarded to the
National Assembly to undergo deliberations and legislative processing, if found
worthy. In addition, Nigerians must
inculcate democratic ethos and civilized conduct. We must steer clear of taking
the law into our hands while protesting because there can be no justification
for destroying public or private property or threatening to do so. The freedom
to protest covers only peaceful protests and definitely does not encroach on
the rights of other citizens to peaceful lives. Political parties have a
major role to play in creating greater awareness of the advantages of the
constitutional avenues for seeking redress of political grievances in
particular and the readiness of the National Assembly to work for the people
irrespective of ethnic, religious or political identities. This is the next
level in deepening democracy that all must embrace. Musa Zuru writes from Kebbi
State