The Director-General of the West
African Health Organisation, WAHO, Prof Stanley Okolo, has called for
partnership between the organization and the  pharmaceutical manufacturers
group to improve access to quality, safe and affordable medicines in the
region. He made the call in Lagos on
Wednesday at the opening of the 2019 Pharma Expo organised by the 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria. Okolo said ECOWAS and WAHO are
supporting the development of pharmaceutical industry in all ECOWAS Member
States  with the sole aim to respond to the region’s need for a secure and
reliable supply of quality, affordable, accessible, safe and proper medicines. The DG, therefore, called for
accelerated implementation process of the various groups in support of
medicines regulation harmonisation and local pharmaceutical manufacturing. “To all partners and delegates
present let’s continue in this drive because I am convinced that with a strong
collaboration we will improve accessibility of quality, safe and effective
medicines in our region,” he said. Prof Okolo, recalled that in
recognition of the enormous challenges facing healthcare systems, including
lack of access to essential medicines, and the reliance on others for
solutions, Heads of State of Africa directed the African Union Commission to
develop a Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Plan for the continent. Consequently, the Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing Plan for Africa was duly developed and adopted by the Conference
of African Ministers of Health held in Johannesburg, in April 2007 and endorsed
by the Heads of State and Government in Accra, in July 2007. According to him, “The
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Plan for Africa is premised on the inalienable
principle that access to quality healthcare, including access to all essential
medicines that are affordable, safe, efficacious, and of good quality, is a
fundamental human right.” Speaking, Mr Frank Muonemeh, the
Executive Secretary of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group the Manufacturers
Association of Nigeria, said the association has been partnering for a very
long time with WAHO to strengthen activities regarding local pharmaceutical
manufacturing. He recalled, “Sometime ago, the
West Africa Health Organisation supported the industry, in the area of training
member organizations in the area of what we call CTDS, which is us to ensure
submission of dossiers that are used in registration of products. It has to do
with we call pharmaceutical quality management systems. “WAHO has always been
supportive to ensure that local Pharma companies move up with speed in the area
of quality. “The WAHO DG being here for the
events of Pharma Expo 2019 is just to make a statement once again, that they
support this group to not just be able to provide essential medicines for the
growing population in West Africa but also to help the organisation to become
globally competitive.”