As part of efforts to place the corporation on a the path of solid
growth, the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has pledged to constructively engage the
Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) and
the Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) to facilitate
industrial harmony. The
GMD stated this Tuesday at a meeting with the Group Executive Committee of both
unions at the NNPC Towers, Abuja. A
press release by the corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs
Division, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, stated that the GMD expressed confidence in the
competence of the corporation’s workforce to exploit the enormous potentials
available to change the fortune of the national oil company. Mele
Kyari said the engagement was important to enable management and the unions to
x-ray issues with a view to finding solutions to challenges facing the oil and
gas industry. He
said the current scoping activity going on at the Port Harcourt Refinery was
part of the management’s determination to tackle one of the key challenges
facing the corporation with the aim of boosting local refining capacity to end
fuel importation. He
stated that the corporation under his leadership was ready to confront
challenges with new innovative ideas, noting that the priority of his
management was to boost the corporation’s revenue base. “There
is no magic around it. There is no way you can increase your revenue until you
produce efficiently in a very cost-efficient manner so that those income will
cancel your losses. It is important to note that you cannot run efficiently
until global standards are met, best practices are respected and the employees
see this company as theirs” the GMD said. In
his presentation, the PENGASSAN Group Chairman, Comrade Matthew Duru, said he
had no doubt in the GMD’s ability to deliver on his mandate of taking the corporation
to greater heights. On
his part, the NUPENG Chairman, Comrade David Edache, pledged the support of the
union to all efforts by management to reposition the corporation.