zainabsule@yahoo.com,
www.zainabokino.blogspot.com For the lay person, series of events in
the last few weeks are convincing evidences that the anti-corruption slogan of
the current administration is taking shape. Really! Well, not everyone would
agree with this position. Lest we forget, fighting corruption has always been tainted
by political consideration, and will remain so for as long as anti-corruption
bodies like the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent
Corrupt Practices Commission ( ICPC) remain appendages of the presidency, which
more often than not, determines who should be investigated or not. I recall the
era of Nuhu Ribadu, who then came up with a list of corrupt Nigerians that
should not seek office, going by the dictates of his boss, President Olusegun
Obasanjo. So, that tendency has lingered on till today. As it was in the past, so shall it
remain for long?  As long as our kind of federal structure makes the
office of the president almost absolute and the constitutional provision of 56
percent of the nation’s resources for the federal government, so shall we
contend with a mighty and super-powerful Presidency using our collective
patronage for a selective war Thus, the anti-corruption war will remain opaque
and jaundiced, while greed and lack of transparency in the process remains
unchanged. But for President Muhammadu Buhari, who
has made this war, the fight of his life and on whose crest he rode to power,
we had expected a more forceful and robust anti-corruption war that knows no
boundaries. It is therefore appalling, that not much has changed over the
years; as a matter of fact, the whole thing is muddled up in political
complexities. By the way, for a country that scored
27 points out of 100 in the 2018 Corruption Perception Index (CPI), ranking 144
out of 180 and whose development has been arrested over the decades due to this
menace, the populace is always happy to rally round any effort to confront the
monster, no matter how insignificant. So in a nutshell, I’m also in support of,
not just the symbolisms and rhetoric of corruption fight, but in its
concreteness and tangibles. Meanwhile, a peep into the last three
cases does not indicate government’s readiness to give legitimacy to the
ant-corruption fight. Head of Service, Winifred Oyo-Ita had a four-day grueling
ordeal with the EFCC last week over allegation of embezzlement of N3 billion
before she was granted administrative bail. Details include monies allegedly
traced to her aide’s account, cronies and fronts, contracts scams, proxy
accounts, falsification of duty allowance (DTA) mismanagement, and abuse of
office. The offences were alleged to have taken place while she was permanent
secretary to a former minister who is under probe too. There is nothing wrong
in investigating past sleazes, as it were, but these offences had long been
perpetuated before the woman was appointed as Head of Service. Why were they
not discovered while she passed through security screenings, if any, and if she
is truly culpable? The insinuation out there is that the investigation was
targeted, at Tanimu Turaki, erstwhile Minister of Special Duties, (with whom
Oyo-Ita served) who jumped ship to the PDP and recently had the temerity to
bail out Atiku Abubakar’s in-law during his own session with the EFCC. Perhaps, another plausible explanation
is that her time as HoS was up, and the government’s decoy was this allegation.
Pray, how can we institute good governance and fight corruption scourge this
way. Believability, credibility and right timing are of utmost importance in
the war on corruption if the government wants to be taken seriously. All the
same, whether it is Oyo-Ita or Tanimu Turaki, they should face the full wrath
of the law if found guilty. The case of Okoi Obono Obla is another
intriguing one. Less than a year ago and before the last election, commentators
shouted themselves hoax over Obono Obla’s not too clean past, which was seen to
be an affront to his new role as chairman of Special Presidential Investigation
Panel on the Recovery of Public Property (SPIPP). He was recently suspended by
the Secretary to the Federation and asked to go answer questions from the ICPC,
which is investigating him. The issue about his certificate scandal and
corruption related offences have been there for long but the government chose
to look the other way to avoid a scrutiny into their “spick and span” image.
After several allegations against the former helmsman, the National Assembly
set up an adhoc committee in December last year to investigate him, and a
guilty verdict was returned in an advisory to the president to sack him. The
forgery and corruption allegations according to a Premium Times report of the
ICPC investigation indicted Obla thus: “He did not secure requisite academic
credentials to enter the University of Jos to study Law or the Nigerian law
School. He cannot build a career on fraudulently obtained-credentials”, the
ICPC report averred. To have appointed Obla to head such a sensitive position
requiring high moral standards, the president erred, and to have kept him this
long even after the national outcry and reports of his alleged involvement in a
credit card scam abroad, among others, is even more puzzling. So, why now? Has he served his purpose
of helping the president win his second term election, and can now be dispensed
with? Again, at this time, it does not really matter. We can only hope that
more of such cases in previous and current administrations would be given
timely treatment to avoid misinterpretation. The latest in the renewed vigour to
fight corruption at the corridors of power was the query issued to the chairman
of Federal Inland Revenue, and Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s protégé, Babatunde Fowler.
In this unfolding plot is a possible clash of interest among the chieftains of
the ruling party. The query which was issued by the president’s Chief of Staff,
Abba Kyari, questioned the dwindling revenues at the foremost revenue service,
in comparison with the period between 2012 and 2014.  “ We observed that
the actual collections for the period 2015 to 2107 were significantly worse
than what was collected between 2012 and 2014”. I’m still wondering where this
unforced error of judgment in the query came from. After regaling us with the
superlative performance of the revenue board and scatting criticisms of the
past government, is the sentence in the query quoted above not an admission
that the past was not as bad as it was painted by the current administration? Again at what stage did the presidency
realise the manifest inefficiency of the boss of FIRS? Why is the ‘discovery’
in 2019, for a malfeasance of 2015 to 2017, two clear years before the 2019
election?  Is this not a clear case of self-indictment? The FG lauded the
revenue agency in 2018 for collecting N5.3 trillion, considered to be the
highest in the nation’s history. The highest in FIRS was N5.07 trillion
generated in 2012 under Ms Ifueko Omoigue. So which variance was referred to in
the query and who is lying with statistics? In the same vein, the query
referenced a “significant variance between budgeted collections and actual
collections for the period 2015 to 2018’’. To the best of my knowledge, no
chief executive of a federal agency has ever been queried for not meeting
targets, which in most cases are based on assumptions and sometimes unrealistic
indices. When do we begin to match promises and plans with actions and
deliverables? Who will give Buhari a query for cancelling all promises made to
the electorate? Is the FIRS no longer generating humongous revenues and
surpassing targets as we were made to believe? Please where is the Vice President Yemi
Osinbajao, the “tax advocate”, whose only language is to continuously tax the
poor to feed the rich without commensurate development in all sectors to
justify monies so collected. Have we been scammed all along, to think the
government is working only for these snippets of lethargy to surface?  How
about Fowler’s assertion that the shortfall in revenue generation was due to
the recession suffered at the period in question, thereby throwing the problem
back to the government? And now the developing story of Ambode’s house search
following the freezing of accounts allegedly linked to the former Lagos
governor with its attendant political undertones.  If all these are not
incongruous, what else is?  Are we playing high-wire politics at the top
echelon or simply lying with statistics. Time will tell, though.