#TrackNigeria: The 4 Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Benin says its forthcoming inter-brigade combat proficiency competition is to prepare junior army commanders for higher responsibilities. Capt. Mohammed Maidawa, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, said this in a statement made available on Saturday in Benin. According to Maidawa, the competition, billed to hold between Aug 19 and Aug. 23, will improve officers’ leadership qualities as well as challenge their initiatives. He explained that the event, which would be competed among formations and units under the 2 Division, would be hosted by the Brigade. Maidawa said that the competition would include physical fitness, skills-at-arms shooting as well as combat swimming. He further explained that the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 2 Division, Maj.-Gen Anthony Omozoje, would be the special guest of honour at the opening of the competition. Maidawa said that the event would take place at the Army Cantonment, Ekehuan from 8.30 am. daily. While urging residents of the area not to panic on seeing heavy movement of troops, he, however, advised them to stay away from the cantonment shooting range. (NAN) Warrant officers of 4 Brigade Nigerian army have won the golden trophy in an inter brigade competition that took place at the Ekehuan Military Cantonment in Benin. The 2 Division Nigerian Army Inter Brigade’s Warrant Officers and Senior Non Commissioned Officers Competition was hosted  by the Headquarters 4 Brigade Nigerian… August 19, 2018 In "Sport" #TrackNigeria: The 4 Brigade, Nigerian Army, Benin in Edo, has announced that it would commence its 2019 Range classification exercise on Thursday. This was contained in a press statement signed by Capt. Mohammed Maidawa, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, and made available to in Benin on Tuesday. Maidawa said that… April 23, 2019 In "Defence" The Nigerian Army has urged South-East and Cross River state residents not to panic over massive movement of troops, military vehicles and weapons as it holds a week-long military exercise. The Deputy Director, Army Public Relations 82 Division, Col. Aliyu Yusuf, made the appeal in a statement issued to the… August 17, 2019 In "Project"