The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has disclosed that the collaboration between
the Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, has led to the
recovery of the sums of $314,000( Three Hundred and Fourteen Thousand US
Dollars) and about N373,000,000.00( Three Hundred and Seventy-three Million
Naira) from perpetrators of computer-related fraud. Magu said while the sum of $314,000 had been recovered, the sum
of N373m had been traced to various commercial banks by the Lagos Zonal office
of the Commission. He also disclosed that the recent joint operations coordinated
by the Commission had yielded 28 arrests, adding that 14 suspects had been
charged and convicted. The EFCC Chairman further stated that “nine of the suspects are
currently undergoing trial, while five are still under investigations. “Over 80 cases are still under investigation from the
EFCC-FBI joint operations.” Speaking through Mohammed Rabo, Lagos Zonal
Head  of the EFCC at a media briefing in Lagos on Tuesday, August 27,
2019, Magu added that  the Lagos zone of the Commission, prior to the
collaborative efforts with the FBI, had independently launched a sustained
operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds. He said:  “From 2018 to date, the EFCC had launched a
sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds, which
resulted in over 200 arrests, 130 convictions and recovery of a large number of
exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds
of crime. “We had independently launched intensive investigative
actions against the infamous Yahoo yahoo boys culminating in
various strategic raids and onslaught on their hideouts. “Our efforts in this regard have recorded tremendous successes
leading to a number of arrests, prosecutions and convictions. “ Magu also called on the media to continue to lend its voice to
the fight against corruption and economic and financial crimes, saying that “no
one has the monopoly of knowledge of how the fight should be fought and
won. “All the critical stakeholders, particularly the media, must
continue to collaborate and cooperate with us to make the fight a success. “I urge you to continue to help us sensitize, mobilize and
educate all the critical stakeholders to continue to support the fight against
economic and financial crimes.  We must collectively strive to
achieve the Nigeria of our dream. “It is very critical for you to understand that you owe the
youth that social responsibility of awakening their consciousness to the
importance of a noble life devoid of crimes.” He also reiterated that the Commission would leave no stone
unturned towards stamping out corruption and economic and financial crimes from
our society.