Flooding is a disaster which can be
natural or man-made. It normally happens when there is too much water in the
dry land and which can be as a result of lack of water passage, blockage or too
much of the water that is coming which cannot be controlled. According to
Wikipedia “flooding is an overflow of water that
submerges land that is usually dry” and it may occur “as an overflow of water
from water bodies, such as a river, lake, or ocean, in which the
water overtops or breaks levees, resulting in some of that
water escaping its usual boundaries, or it may occur due to an
accumulation of rainwater on saturated ground in an areal flood” this is the
reason people on the waterways or riparian areas are always advised/warned to
vacate these places whenever there is sign of flooding, but many times these people
ignored the warnings and their government takes no action. In Jigawa state,
there are local governments or villages that are in riparian areas which  are prone/fragile to flooding. These areas are
very fragile and easy prey whenever there is flooding in the state. Kafin
Hausa, Auyo, Guri and Ringim for example, have experienced or experiencing
flooding almost every raining season, which led to the loss of billions of Naira,
properties, homes and lives. Around 2003 a whole village called Marawa in
Ringim Local Government was swept away by water and had to be relocated and
rebuild due to the flooding in the area by Jigawa state government to prevent
future occurrence of the disaster but still some people went back to the old
location and built houses while the authority watched. While in 2010 in Jahun
Local Government flood damaged more than 200 houses which forced many people in
the local government to seek shelter somewhere else. In 2018, in Ringim, Gwaram, Birnin Kudu,
Taura, Miga, Jahun, Auyo, Kazaure, Mallam-Madori, Hadejia, Guri, Kirikasamma, Buji
and Kaugama more than 100,000 hectares of farms of rice, thousands of houses
and many lives were destroyed. This led to many outbreaks of diseases in the Internally
Displaced Persons Camps set up by the state government for the victims of the
flood while others seek shelter in neighboring towns. In a situation
which looks like we are not learning from the past, this year, before the start
of the rain, The
Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) advised/warned people in the riverine areas in the state
to relocate or take proper precaution to prevent being destroyed by the flood but
neither the government nor the people take the warning seriously. From the last
days of July to August of this year, Jigawa state has recorded countless number
of flooding where many villages were submerged, lives were lost and properties
destroyed. A report from the state indicates that more than five lives were
lost, including a pregnant woman in Kirikasamma Local government and thousands
of residents have been displaced in the most affected areas; Guri, Kirikasamma
and Birnin Kudu local government areas. To prevent the future occurrence of this disaster there is the
need for government to be serious, especially in the area of constructing
drainage in the state; not only constructing the drainages they should be of
good quality. Government should also make sure it implements the previous
recommendations given by different stakeholders on how to prevent future
occurrence of flooding in the state. It should also take the issue of
relocating those in the riverine areas very serious because one of the responsibility
(the most important) of any serious government is protecting the lives and
properties of its citizens. People building on the waterways should be advised
to demolish their buildings with immediate effect and anyone found wanting in
the future should be dealt with decisively. And lastly, there is the need for
the people to be keeping their environment clean; people should stop dumping
refuse on gutters/waterways and we need to bring back the “Aikin Gayya”. Ali Sab works with Centre for
Information Technology and Development in Dutse, Jigawa State. You can reach
him either through email: aliyuncee@gmail.com or his twitter handle @alygee124