The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) has described the spike in
criminal activities among youths as the result of erosion of family values and
the frantic quest to get-rich-quick among the younger generation of Nigerians. BMO made this comment in its reaction to America’s Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) indictment of a horde of youngsters, amongst whom
are 77 Nigerians, for various offences bordering on cybercrime. In a statement signed by its Chairman Niyi Akinsiju and
Secretary Cassidy Madueke, BMO noted that it is regrettable that over the years
some misguided Nigerians have deviated from the lofty ideals and values for
which our people are known. “We state unequivocally that crime has no racial or religious
colouration, and the indictment of some Nigerians should not lead to
criminalising the whole population. This is obviously an isolated case and
should be seen as such.” BMO also reminded Nigerians that most of the individuals
mentioned in the FBI list had become naturalised United States citizens, and
have imbibed western values. “Their actions cannot therefore be used to
describe the average Nigerian, as majority of Nigerians are good and
law-abiding people. “We believe that the latest indictment should be a wake-up call
to us as a people, and will lead to value re-orientation in the country. “This is also the reason we consider the emergence of President
Muhammadu Buhari as timely, bearing in mind that his integrity and sense of
moderation in the acquisition of wealth will serve as a guide to all Nigerians.
In fact he is a moral compass whose exemplary lifestyle will lead Nigeria in
the right direction.” BMO also recalled that President Buhari had in the past called
on Nigerians to live within their means and Nigerians, especially youths,
should hearken to his voice and emulate him to avoid falling prey to bad
friends and criminally-minded people. “We therefore call on the indicted persons to give themselves up
to the authorities and clear their names.”