The Chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL), Aisha Falode, on Friday in congratulated the Nigeria’s U-20 Super Falconets, for winning the gold medal in the Women’s Soccer of the African Games just concluded in Morocco. Falode on behalf of NWFL board, commended the players and officials, who were 100 per cent products of the NWFL for doing the country proud. “They have won for the country the biggest prize at the continent’s most prestigious sports fiesta. “It feels good to see products of the much improved Nigeria Women Premier League put smiles on the faces of Nigerians, especially, the presidency which has not stopped giving massive commendations to the Falconets for helping to sustain its firm grip at the pivot of sports development in Africa,’’ she said in a statement. “By the time the board of the NWFL moves a step further in activating the partnership with the La Liga Women’s League later this year, there will be massive progressional transformation. “We in the NWFL are committed to taking Nigerian women’s football to a greater height worthy of emulation by other developing women’s leagues across the continent and indeed at the world level. “The victory of the Falconets at the African Games in Morocco further sealed Nigeria’s dominance in the continent, especially as the victory of the Super Falcons at the last edition of the African Women Nations Cup in Ghana. “Also, the best continental performance at the FIFA Women’s World Cup in France, which erased the earlier overwhelming gap between African women’s football against those in Europe, Asia and America.” “She added that it has further entrenched the Nigeria Women Football League, as the leaders in the development of women’s football globally,’’ she said. Falode, a member of the Nigeria Football Federation, gave plaudits to the Nigeria senior women’s national soccer team, the Super Falcons. “They have moved a step further in the country’s quest to qualify for the 2020 Olympic Women’s Football event, as the wholly home-grown team defeated Algeria 2-0 on their home soil in Blida. “They have set up a less stressful second leg cracker in Lagos next Tuesday, at the ‘Soccer Temple’ Agege Stadium. “I am confident of the Falcons’ readiness to record a 100 per cent victory against the Algerians, a result that will move the Nigerian girls closer to the qualification for next year’s Japan 2020 Olympic Games,’’ she said. (NAN)