The right oil largely depends on 2 major factors, fatty Acids Choosing the right oil largely depends on the type of fatty
acid missing or is less in your overall diet
routine. There are two basic essential fatty acids we derive from nutrition,
namely omega-3 and 0mega-6.fatty acids. These fatty acids are said to be
essential because they are derived from the food we consume. The source of these
fatty acids vary and it is not limited to culinary oils, they can be sourced
from other foods such as seeds, nuts, vegetables and even  sea foods such as good quality oily fish. However, culinary oils should be picked based on the fatty
acid that is missing or is less in your overall diet regimen, because we need
these fatty acids on a daily basis. According to a dieting principle “the 50
factor” principle, these two fatty acids are a daily requirement In our diet as
part of the recommended nutrients in addition to vitamins, minerals amino acids
and other healthy lifestyle practices such as good sleep, clean air,
dehydration, reasonable exposure to sunlight, exercise, etc. Even though we
should, Chances are that we may not eat the other foods that contain these
fatty acids (nuts, seeds, and oily fish) daily but we cook with oils daily.
Since we need these fatty acids daily we must select oils wisely. When you are
not sure of the fatty acid missing in your diet it is wiser to choose very
healthy oil, oil that contains both fatty acids and other nutrients. The oil
extracted from the fruit of olive tree is such oil. Olive oil nutrient
composition summary Extra virgin oil is a store house of amazing antioxidants,
which are biological active and are applauded for their unequalled nutritive
value such as vitamins K and E. it also contains oleic acid, studies suggest
that oleic acid reduces inflammation and may have beneficial effect on genes
linked to cancer. According to research inflammation is the root cause of many
ailments… Oleic acid has also been strongly associated with reduced
risk of heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and high blood pressure. It is also
noted to improve mood, delay aging, and prevent cancer. increased levels of
oleic acid In the cell membrane reduces the oxidative damage caused by free
radical damage; oleic acid is an important block of the brain and nervous
system it is required for the formation of myelin (myelin is a lipid-rich substance
formed In the nervous system that helps increases speed at which information
travels from one nerve cell body to another) and for nerve growth and repair;
oleic acid also serves several functions In neurotransmitter regulation and
much more! Oleic acid is
otherwise known as omega 9fatty acid. Omega-9 fatty acids are considered to be
“conditionally essential,” which means that your body produces them,
but they are not produced in meaningful quantities. Consuming omega-9 fatty
from foods such as olive oil is essential to gain the above stated benefits! This
fatty acid can be found in other oils as well; however olive oil has the most
concentration of oleic acid according to research! Another great feature of olive oil is the antioxidant
“oleocathal. Oleocathal has been show to work similarly to ibuprofen, an
anti-inflammatory drug. Some scientist estimate that the oleocathal I 3.4
tablespoons (50ml) of extra virgin olive oil as similar effects as 10% of the
adult dosage of ibuprofen. The oil is also gentle on the digestive system and may help
in preventing gallstones and soothe ulcers. It may even benefit insulin levels
and blood sugar control, and therefore potentially lower the risk of heart
dieses. However, olive oil nutritional value depends on the press type Olive oil press
types To get all these benefits from olive oil you must choose the
right olive oil amongst the four press types of olive oil. Selection is key! The major problem with olive oil is that it is not always
what it seems… Some lower quality versions can be extracted using chemicals,
or even diluted with other cheaper oils. Therefore buying the right type of
olive oil is incredibly important! Cuisine Excessive heat destroy oils especially oils with low or
medium smoke points. According to experts olive oils (extra virgin olive oil)
is best consumed without applying to heat. Use olive oils in mostly raw recipes
such as salads. If you must cook with it then use the other press variant such
as virgin olive oil or pure olive oil they both have slight better tolerance to
heat also use in quick cooking style like sautéing, stir-fries, etc. We all have a responsibility to make wise and informed
choices each day about the food we buy and eat. These tips are your ally to
safer culinary and dieting so use them generously! For questions on culinary/ grocery
tips, diet-plans please drop me a message. Email: Sussannajacob@gmail.com,newleeznlife@yahoo. Facebook: sussanna Ngodoo .E. Jacob Instergram:ngodoo.s.jacob Whatsapp: 07035990863