President Muhammadu
Buhari Thursday
in Yokohama, Japan said that the few Nigerians abroad indulging in criminal
activities do not represent the values of majority of the people of the
country. Special
Adviser to the President (Media & Publicity),Femi Adesina,said in a statement that while meeting with leaders
of the Nigerian Community living in Japan on the sidelines of the Seventh Tokyo
International Conference on African Development (TICAD7), the President
declared: “Let
me also say that there are few Nigerians in the Diaspora that are giving us a
bad name by engaging in criminal activities. These Nigerians are a minority,
they do not represent the values of our country, and I plead with them to change
their ways.” According
to him, “We will not condone any crime whether at home or abroad, and we will
also not allow these Nigerians define us as a people with reputation for
criminality.” Urging
Nigerians in Japan to be good ambassadors of their fatherland, the Nigerian
leader said, “I am personally very happy that there are millions of Nigerians
all over the world, like you here, who are truly making us proud.” Describing
majority of the over 17 million Nigerians in Diaspora as “the face of Nigeria
globally and our ambassadors for good,” the President noted that, “Many of our
Diasporans, like your good selves here today, have excelled in varying fields of endeavor,
both professionally and individually. “You
have also made significant and overwhelmingly positive contributions to your
Nigerian and international host communities. You have continually been a
positive bridge between Nigeria and the world. It is not an easy feat and we
commend you, salute your courage and efforts.” Noting
that “Japan is at the cutting edge of technology and efficiency, two very
important attributes that can play a role in Nigeria and improve our capacity
for development,” President Buhari urged members of his audience to continue to
contribute their quota by helping to develop their host country and Nigeria as
well, adding: “I look forward to your inborn gift, ability, and capacity in
taking up this challenge.” Commending
many of them who are already “positively impacting the Nigerian economy through
financial home remittances, promoting international trade in Nigerian
commodities, our music, culture, tourism, sports, and education, while also
helping to establish industries in Nigeria,” the President urged them “to
encourage legitimate Japanese entrepreneurs to come and invest in Nigeria.” According
to him, “We are continually working to create the necessary enabling
environment for investors to thrive, through improvements in our Ease of Doing
Business practices, providing security, diversification of the economy, infrastructure
and fighting corruption.” He
further assured them that, “We have put in place the Economic Recovery and
Growth Plan (ERPG) to put the country on a path of sustained recovery and
growth.” Explaining
the rationale for his regular meetings with Nigerians abroad and the
establishment of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, President Buhari said: “As
you are aware, I have regularly held town hall meetings with Nigerians in the
Diaspora on all my foreign engagements be they in Europe, Asia, America and
Africa. “At
these fora, I have always, appealed to our citizens to be our good ambassadors,
observe the laws of your host countries, excel in whatever you do legitimately,
and also remember us at home (Nigeria). I have established the Nigerians in
Diaspora Commission specifically to engage with you, signifying a coordinated
attempt by our administration to increase the involvement of our Diaspora in
our national development. “Collectively,
your resources, skills, and talents will be a positive force for our country
which can help accelerate our national growth and development.” President Buhari’s meeting with Nigerians in Diaspora,
coordinated by Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Diaspora Commission, who
described the President as “the most Diaspora-friendly leader we have had in
Nigeria,” witnessed a parade of the brightest and best of our citizens, plying
their trade in Japan. They included academics, industrialists, top businessmen,
scientists, economists, and many others. Professor Ejiogu Emenike, President, Nigerians in Diaspora
Organisation Asia (NIDOASIA) and an energy expert, commended President Buhari
for efficient leadership, and disclosed that his members have “comparative
advantages in human capital development, which we are trying to bring back to
Nigeria.” He added: “Any problem that science and technology can solve, we
are able to, and we can help Nigeria in areas of need.” Engineer Ochade Osakwe, Chairman, Nigeria/Japan Chambers of
Commerce and Industry, recounted businesses that have been  attracted to
Nigeria in recent times, promising to do more, as the security and investment
climates back home improved further. Mr Nnaji Fintan, President, Nigerian Union in Japan, asked for
more exploits in the areas of education, quality infrastructure and security,
which incidentally, are focal points of the current administration.