#TrackNigeria –Reports reaching Newsdiaryonline from the Presidency revealed that President Muhammadu Buhari has sacked Okoi Obono-Obla, the head of the assets recovery panel. Obono-Obla’s fate has been hanging
in the balance following a string of reports alleging questionable academic
records.He has reportedly denied those allegations.But Obono-Obla faces  fresh troubles beyond the emerging report of
his sack It was learnt that a letter
conveying his sack was delivered to the Solicitor-General of the Federation and
Permanent Secretary Ministry of Justice,  Obla’s supervising ministry. Outlining the troubles ahead for the
sacked head of presidential asset recovery panel, a presidency source said, “He
may himself face criminal prosecution on matters related to his alleged
financial dealings, as uncovered by the ICPC upon investigation. “He may in addition, face
prosecution with regard to his academic credentials, specifically the WAEC
Certificate issue. Furthermore, the source disclosed
that, “Government may ask the University of Jos to withdraw his law degree and
the Nigerian Law School to debar him from practice. This is owing to the
conclusion of the ICPC investigation, the recommendations of which were
approved in full by President Buhari. Meanwhile, Senior Special Assistant
to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said he was not
briefed on the issue.He therefore asked that press enquiries be directed to the
SGF. The Federal Government has dropped Mr Okoi Obono-Obla as the Chairman, Special Investigation Panel on recovery of Public Property. The announcement was made on Sunday by Mr Salihu Isah, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami. He said that Obono-Obla was directed to stop… November 6, 2017 In "News" Of all the vote-catching strategies laid out by the ruling All Progressives Congress in the lead up to the 2015 general elections, its promise to prosecute an all-out war against corruption was unquestionably the most compelling and believable. This is because its presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, is widely known as… August 8, 2017 In "Columns" The Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP) for the Recovery of Public Property has recovered seven dollars million (N2.1 billion at official rate) illegally kept in Heritage Bank. Chairman of the panel, Mr Okoi Obono-Obla, disclosed this while briefing President Muhammadu Buhari on activities of the panel. Spokesperson of the SPIP,… June 12, 2018 In "Anti-Graft"