#TrackNigeria–The Commandant Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Major General Adeniyi Oyebade, has lauded the efforts of the Director General Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON), Major General Victor Ezugwu, for his sincere commitment to repositioning the premier industry to an enviable height in line with the vision of the founding fathers. He made the remark when the DG DICON
paid him a courtesy visit at the permanent site of NDA Kaduna. Harping on the onerous task of
making Nigerian project work, the Commandant stated that, the clarion call to
give the best to the nation was a project everyone could contribute
meaningfully for the development of the nation, stressing that the nation was
in dire need of such contributions. According to him, the military stands for
the defence of the unity of the nation despite the current challenges facing
the nation and it must be seen upholding this role at all times. He further stated that the NDA under
his leadership was inculcating the values and ethos of national unity in the
cadet since they were the future leaders of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. The Commandant who also noted that the Engineering Cadets were making the
nation proud especially in research and development, disclosed that there were
quite a number of prototype research products they hoped to exhibit during the
2019 passing out parade. He commended DICON under the leadership of General Ezugwu for producing
vehicles and ballistic materials in the theater of operations across the
nation, particularly the North East. The Commandant NDA also said the
Chief off Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai has made some giant strides in the
area of production of combat vehicles for the Nigerian Army with 70 percent
local content stressing that his efforts were worthy of commendation by all
well meaning Nigerians. ‘Nigeria has a huge market but we want to dominate the West African market in
the nearest future if we continue with this tempo,’ he said. He called for robust synergy between DICON and NDA especially in the area of
research and development, adding that the grant received by NDA might be spread
for the benefit of DICON Research and Development Centre in their collaborative
efforts. Earlier, the DG DICON, Maj Gen Ezugwu said he paid the courtesy visit with the
aim of leveraging on NDA’s support in the fabrication of military products for
the nation’s Armed Forces with special emphasis on the Faculty of Engineering. He noted that he was impressed by the technological breakthrough of one of the
cadets who researched and produced a prototype drone; He therefore pledged to
sponsor an award of N250,000.00 Naira for the best graduating cadet in R &
D with a view to encouraging innovative Science and Technology. ‘Science and Technology is research driven and it should dovetail into mass
production hence DICON will be quite interested to promote these.’ The DG who further described NDA as
a symbol of the Nigerian Armed Forces said it would always be one of the major
end users of DICON products, especially the ones needed for training, therefore
DICON would ensure high equality. He stressed that he would not supply
what will be below the Commandant’s standard. He expressed appreciation to the
Commandant for being his good mentor right from his cadetship training period
in NDA till date. He further disclosed that DICON in
partnership with Command Engineering Depot, would be rolling out about 20
different combat vehicles produced locally, stressing that he would use local
content to achieve DICON’s mandate.