 Skimming and
scanning through the list of President Muhammadu Buhari’s ministers-designate,
one would see therein the inclusion of two Agbas, to wit: Goddy Jedy-Agba and
Clem IK Agba. The enclosure of these Nigerians who bear the same surname is one
of the rare happenstances in life and in the constitution of this particular
cabinet. Apparently unrelated by blood and ethnicity, Goddy and Clem have the
good fortune of coming into the cabinet with surnames that are the same in
spelling even if they are, as expected, different in meaning. Although,
Goddy is from Cross River state while Clem is from Edo state both within the
South-south geo-political zone, yet they share a few things in common on other
fronts. For instance, they are both princes of their respective kingdom. Goddy
was born into a royal family in Obudu by His Royal Highness Uti J.D. Agba while
Clem was born into the family of His Royal Highness, Pius Kadiri Ikanade Agba –
the Oliola of Uzanu in Etsako East. They thus bring their blue bloods into the
cabinet. To boot, they
are both technocrats with track records of achievements in their fields of
interest. Interestingly, both men have been “big players” in the very lucrative
oil and gas sectors of the Nigerian economy. Therefore, there is a comical
sense in which both could be referred to as oil “Sheiks”.  Goddy worked
for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) where he retired as
Group General Manager (GGM), Crude Oil Marketing Division (COMD) while Clem has
been in and out of work for Chevron Oil. Clem’s last
position was Manager, Community Procurement Operations at Chevron Oil from
where he was tapped for appointment as a minister by President Buhari. But
before his appointment as a minister, he had gone on leave of absence in 2009
to serve as a Commissioner in the Ministry of Environment and Public Utilities
and later in the Ministry of Lands, Survey and Housing in Edo state in the
government of Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole. By way of
salutary digression, Clem, as a commissioner in charge of Environment and
Public Utilities, championed the urban renewal and construction of drainage
infrastructure to combat erosion menace in Edo state. He was largely
instrumental to the conceptualization of the Benin Water Storm project to deal
with the perennial flooding problem in the state capital. He reformed waste
management and ensured beautification of the Ring Road; and, addressed the
issues of defacing, slum settlements and chaotic traffic flows in urban
centres, particularly Benin City. He was also credited with coming up with
sustainable forest regeneration initiatives. At the
Ministry of Lands, Survey and Housing, he set up the Edo Geographic Information
Services (EGIS). These were in addition to his being the chairman of Edo State
Tenders Board (2009-2012) and his numerous contributions as a member of Edo
State Economic and Strategy Team that was then under the headship of the
current State Governor, Godwin Obaseki. Apparently, Clem has both the private
and public sectors under his belt and can then boast of his readiness to engage
with the intricate working of executive implementation and supervision of
policies and programmes. Clem’s
landmark achievements in Edo state constitute his enduring legacies. Analytical
and very resourceful, his capacities and possibilities were attested to on the
occasions when Edo State Government episodically briefed the Edo people on its
activities.  He was always a cynosure of all eyes for his erudition so
much so that a former governorship aspirant in the state, architect and
neo-scholar, Dr Austin Emuan, once lauded his creativity and industry. For Goddy,
with his exposure to the dynamics of public finance management in the NNPC, one
can safely surmise that in him the president has a brilliant and
sharply-focused minister-designate who could, without thinking twice, given his
obvious experience, be picked for the critical petroleum portfolio. While in
charge of Crude Oil Marketing Division (COMD) as GGM at the NNPC, he was, among
other duties, responsible for liaising with Crude Pricing and Technical
Evaluation Section on Price Movement and other input data for market
reports. Goddy also
monitored and analyzed consumption of other energy types, terms of cost
availability and relative impact on world petroleum supply/demand balance;
monitored and analyzed consumption patterns and conservation policies in
consumer countries and implication for oil demand; monitored and analyzed
tanker market as well as world crude oil supply and demand balance; prepared
monthly as well as quarterly reports; participated in quarterly market review
meetings and prepared summary of review with marketers. As Head of
Gas/Gas Liquids/Condensate Sale, before he was elevated to the position of GGM,
COMD, Goddy was responsible for letters of credit administration, credit
control claims and documentations (including documents of oil lifting and
payments, reconciliation of all credits-demurrage, debits, penalties and
interest charges). He took part in tripartite reconciliation with
CBN/FAD/Commercial Division to ensure uniformity of sales and receipts; and
undertook the supervision of re-test of condensate, LPG, LNG and gas samples
for quality control, including, specifically, investigation and assessment of
demurrage and loss claims as well as coordination and supervision of credit
control and claims. Indeed, both
men (Goddy and Clem), with their solid experiences, can very well pass for
utilitarian technocrats that will offer the marked seriousness and commitment
to effective service delivery by government in the next four years, which are
critical to President Buhari for building enduring legacies. The
resourcefulness of both ministers-designate in the oil sector can be harnessed
either as a tag team to address the contending issues in the sector or through
inter-ministerial synergies and the complementarities of special purpose
committees for holistic solutions to identified issues. Besides, the
princely duo should be expected to commit greater effort to effective service
delivery than the dyed-in-the-wool politician-ministers who may be more
interested in deploying their offices in bolstering their political interests
in the build-up to the 2023 general election. In the circumstance of mitigating
the expected pressure between delivering on set-mandates and satisfying the
diktats of vested political interests, President Buhari would do well to set
his eyes on the likes of the two Agbas and a few other technocrats in the
cabinet to handle specialised ministerial portfolios that are critical to
national development and to the institution of accountability in leadership in
terms of measurable infrastructure development and achievements. For Goddy and
Clem, the consensus among close watchers of the politics of ministerial
appointment and assignment of portfolios is that, given the validation of their
backgrounds and performances during the Senate screening and confirmation
hearing, they could be deployed in driving the critical sectors of any of
petroleum, power, works, housing and environment portfolios. As individuals who
crave the institution of excellence in public service and from whom much is
expected, they must put their nose to the grindstone. Interestingly,
while both of them did not study engineering or any oil and gas-related courses
in the University (Goddy obtained a first degree in International Studies and a
second degree in International Law and Diplomacy; Clem obtained a B.Sc degree
in Economics and two Master of Business Administration degrees (one in
management and the second in Supply Chain Management), they thus communicate a
fact that there is something unique about their Intelligence Quotient (IQ), to
wit: the power and capacity to adapt and focus on areas of interest for
self-actualisation, achievement of corporate goals and benefit of humanity. ·      
Ojeifo,
an Abuja-based journalist, contributed this piece via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com