The Japan Meteorological Agency on Wednesday said that 347 flights and many train services were cancelled for Thursday, as the country braces for powerful Typhoon Krosa. A powerful typhoon was bearing down on western Japan on Wednesday, bringing heavy rain and lashing winds to large swaths of the country. Typhoon Krosa is projected to make landfall on Thursday morning, according to the Agency. Travellers were left stranded at the height of the summer holiday season as this year’s 10th typhoon caused the cancellation of 347 flights and many train services for Thursday, broadcaster NHK reported. Forecasters warned that the slow-moving typhoon could dump dangerous amounts of rain in some regions in excess of 1.2 metres and urged residents to stay vigilant against mudslides, swelling rivers and high waves. As of 8.00 p.m. (1100 GMT), Krosa was 180 kilometres east of Tanegashima Island, near Kyushu, travelling north at 20 kilometres per hour. It was recording maximum sustained winds of 108 kilometres per hour and gusts of 144 kilometres per hour, the agency said. The storm is expected to dump one metre of rain in Shikoku and 0.7 metres in the Tokai region by 6.00 p.m. on Thursday. In July 2018, torrential rains in western Japan triggered floods and landslides, killing more than 220 people – the highest number of deaths from a single weather event in three decades. Meanwhile, a heatwave scorched areas along the Sea of Japan on Wednesday, with the city of Joetsu posting this year’s highest temperature of 40.3 degrees Celsius. (dpa/NAN) Passengers including hundreds of Nigerian on board Air France operated commercial Aircraft from and to Lagos and Abuja were since Wednesday stranded at Charles De Gaulle International Airport, Paris. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that many of them have to sleep at the airport from Wednesday for a… July 20, 2018 In "Featured" The domestic terminals of Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos recorded higher numbers of passengers on Thursday ahead of the Easter holidays. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Federal Government had declared April 19 and 22 to mark the Easter celebration by Christians in commemoration of the… April 18, 2019 In "Business" A strike by public sector workers in Germany caused several hundred domestic and international flights to be cancelled and local transport in some locations to be suspended on Tuesday. A strike by fire service personnel at the Cologne Bonn Airport in western Germany meant that there were no planes taking… April 10, 2018 In "World"