#TrackNigeria–Since return of democracy in 1999 and particularly following the 2019 general elections, the citizens were very hopefully of renewed vigor in addressing the myriad of problems bedeviling the country ranging from intensification of insecurity, the deepening of corruption, growing poverty and unemployment as well as flagrant and frequent disrespect of the rule of law. Nigerians believed that the Administration which received the mandate of Nigerians for another four-year term would reciprocate the people’s goodwill and trust; and commit itself to expand the civic space and facilitating citizen’s engagement in an expanding democratic space. We, the undersigned civil society organisations have
observed with great concern and indeed, alarm, massive violation of the rights
of citizens, including the right to protest, concerted attacks of media
organisations, press freedom and civil society organisations: 1.          Media harassment and intimidation The Nigerian mass media has become a
regular focus of illegal attacks by the security agencies. Unlawful arrest and
detention of journalists have become a growing phenomenon, and our great
tradition of a free press and freedom of expression is under severe
stress. 2.      Constant
Harassment of Human Rights and Anti-corruption Civil Society Organisations The Nigeria state is currently
engaged in continuous attacks on human rights and anti-corruption civil
society organisations and activists in the country. An instance is the unfair
attack on Amnesty International Nigeria by some security agencies and
unscrupulous agents using hoodlums and miscreants threatening Amnesty
International Nigeria to vacate the country. Trying to force a legal
organisation that has all Nigeria citizens to vacate and leave the country
without an attempt by security agencies to protect their rights is
unacceptable. 3.      The
Unlawful ban on protest We are gravely concerned over the
unlawful statement issued by the authorities of the Nigeria Police Force
threatening to prosecute the organisers of the peaceful rallies in Nigeria.
There are existing provisions of law and judicial authorities recognising the
fundamental rights of the Nigerian people to non-violently convene and
participate in rallies, demonstration and protest marches. Fundamentally, 
the provision of the 1999 constitution of Nigeria as amended that “Every
person shall be entitled to assemble freely and associate with other persons…”
is sacrosanct and must be protected. We therefore, call for restrained of
arbitrary misuse of power against the citizens for a non-violent protest,
demonstration to express their views. We demand immediate release of all
activists who are in detention for exercising their fundamental rights. We call on security agencies and
government officials to ensure total compliance to the rule of law as provided
for in our legal system. We also call on government to
respect and allow the flourishing of civil space for meaningful contribution to
democratic governance in Nigeria. We further call on government to be
more accountable and responsive to the citizenry they were elected to serve for
good governance. Signed: SIGNED BY: 1.      Centre
for Democracy and Development (CDD) 2.      Centre
for Democratic Research and Training (CRDDERT) 3.      Civil
Society Network Against Corruption (CSNAC) 4.      Human
and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) 5.      Public
Interest Lawyers League (PILL) 6.      Civil
Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) 7.      Partners
for West Africa – Nigeria 8.     Centre
for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) 9.     Socio-Economic
Right and Accountability Project (SERAP) 10.  Falana Falana
Chambers 11. CLEEN
Foundation 12.   International
Refugee Rights Initiative (IRRI) 13.   Zero-Corruption
Coalition (ZCC) 14.   Accountability
Maternal New-born and Child Health in Nigeria (AMHiN) 15.   Partners on
Electoral Reform 16.   State of the
Union (SOTU) 17.   African Centre
for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) 18.   National
Procurement Watch Platform 19.   Say NO
Campaign—Nigeria 20.   Resource Centre
for Human Rights and Civil Education (CHRICED) 21.   Social Action 22.   International
Press Centre 23.   WANGONET 24.   Community
Action for Popular Participation 25.   Borno Coalition
for Democracy and Progress (BOCODEP) 26.   Global Rights 27.  Nigeria Labour
Congress (NLC} 28.  Institute
of Human Rights and Humanitarian Law 29.  Alliance for Credible
Elections (ACE) 30.   Youth
Initiative for Advocacy, Growth & Advancement (YIAGA) 31.   Tax Justice
Nigeria 32.   Environmental
Rights Action/Friends of the Earth, Nigeria 33.   Women In
Nigeria 34.   African Centre
for Leadership, Strategy & Development (Centre LSD) 35. Centre for Social Justice 36. HURIDAC 37. Protest to Power 38. Network on Police Reform in
Nigeria(NOPRIN Foundation) 39. Rule of Law and Accountability
Advocacy Centre(RULAAC) 40. Women Advocate Research And
Documentation Centre 41. Women’s
Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative(WRAPA) 42. Women’s International League for
Peace and Freedom 43. Sesor Empowerment Foundation 44. Dorothy Njemanze Foundation 45. Echoes of Women in Africa
Initiatives (ECOWA) 46. Hadis Foundation 47. Education As a Vaccine Against
Women 48. Baobab for Women’s Human
Rights 49. Nigerian Feminist Forum 50. Alliances for Africa 51. Space for Change