The United States Embassy in Nigeria has increased fees for Nigerians applying for tourism, student and business visas. The embassy in a statement on Tuesday said effective from August 29 Nigerians applying for the aforementioned visas which used to cost N59,200, would do so with an extra $110 (N40,700). This would bring the total amount to N99,900. According to the statement, applicants who are denied visas would not need to pay the extra N40,700. Applicants seeking the L1 Visa (work permit) will pay an extra N112,100 if given visas while those applying for H4 Visa (dependency/spousal) will pay an extra N66,600. The US embassy said it raised the fees because Americans were paying too much to get Nigerian visas. “Effective worldwide on August 29, Nigerian citizens will be required to pay a visa issuance fee, or reciprocity fee, for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications,” the statement said. “The reciprocity fee will be charged in addition to the non-immigrant visa application fee, also known as the MRV fee, which all applicants pay at the time of application. “Nigerian citizens whose applications for a non-immigrant visa are denied will not be charged the new reciprocity fee. Both reciprocity and MRV fees are non-refundable, and their amounts vary based on visa classification. “US law requires US visa fees and validity periods to be based on the treatment afforded to US citizens by foreign governments, insofar as possible. “Visa issuance fees are implemented under the principle of reciprocity: when a foreign government imposes additional visa fees on US citizens, the United States will impose reciprocal fees on citizens of that country for similar types of visas. “Nationals of a number of countries worldwide are currently required to pay this type of fee after their non-immigrant visa application is approved. “Since early 2018, the US government has engaged the Nigerian government to request that the Nigerian government change the fees charged to US citizens for certain visa categories. “After 18 months of review and consultations, the government of Nigeria has not changed its fee structure for U.S. citizen visa applicants, requiring the US Department of State to enact new reciprocity fees in accordance with our visa laws. “The reciprocity fee will be required for all Nigerian citizens worldwide, regardless of where they are applying for a non-immigrant visa to the United States,” the statement read. Credit: Qed