The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has advised candidates of the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to always read and strictly adhere to instructions contained in the examination brochure before registering for the examinations. The board’s Head of Media and Publicity, Mr Fabian Benjamin, gave the advice in an interview on Saturday in Abuja. Benjamin spoke against the backdrop of concerns being raised by the public on the fate of some candidates who sat and passed the UTME with high scores, but were not sure of their plight as they did not meet the age requirement. One Ekele Franklin, a 15-year-old candidate, who reportedly scored the highest at the 2019 UTME, but who may not be offered admissions into University of Lagos (UNILAG), his choice of institution, because of his age, is one of such examples. According to Benjamin, the board, in its examination brochure, states the age limit for admissions into tertiary institutions in the country,but because candidates hardly read the item, fall victims to the unfortunate circumstance. ” Although universities have different requirements for entries into their institutions, where some may be stern with the age limit, others may be flexible. ”Some schools will never admit one who is not up to the required age into their institutions, even after scoring high marks in the UTME and other examinations. “It is not peculiar to Nigeria alone, it happens in other countries too,” he said. Benjamin therefore urged prospective UTME candidates to be cautious and become acquainted with, as well as follow all the instructions stated in the procedure so as not to fall into problems. He also said that admissions process for the 2019/20 would commence on Wednesday, Aug. 21, as the board was working tirelessly to ensure a smooth process. (NAN) The Joint Admissions and Matriculation has fixed Monday, 1st April, 2019 for its 2019 mock examination earlier scheduled for Saturday, 23rd March,2019. This change is due to certain circumstances beyond the Board's control.  Head of Media, JAMB, Dr. Fabian Benjamin  who disclosed this in a statement Wednesday, also said candidates… March 13, 2019 In "Education" The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says no candidate of the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) has more than one result. The board stated this in its weekly bulletin released from the office of the Registrar on Sunday in Abuja. The bulletin quoted the Head, Media and Publications,… June 9, 2019 In "Education" The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), on Tuesday, announced that the Direct Entry (DE) application, which began in December 2017, would close on June 4. The Board’s Head of Media, Dr Fabian Benjamin, made the announcement in an interview in Abuja. According to Benjamin, over 140, 000 candidates have… May 29, 2018 In "Education"