The Anambra State House of Assembly on Friday urged Gov. Willie Obiano to establish infrastructure that would promote indigenous beef farming known as ‘Efi Igbo’, in local parlance. The resolution followed a motion raised under Matters of Urgent Public Importance by Mr Umeoduagu Dike, Aguata I, who said that beef farming was an untapped lucrative business in the state. Dike said that the provision of adequate infrastructure would go a long way in solving the constraints to beef production and cow rearing business known as ‘Efi Igbo’, in the state. “The demand for livestock products such as milk, beef and other dairy products is continually increasing. We can tap into this demand. “With appropriate encouragement and enabling environment from the government, more people will engage in the business of beef farming. That way, jobs will be created. “When we have many people in the business, there will be competition and prices of meat will reduce. When our local consumption is satisfied, we will begin to export. “That way, our economy will grow and ‘Efi Igbo will not go into extinction,’’ Dike said. The lawmakers took turns to support the motion, saying that beef farming “is a profitable investment in agriculture’’. In his submission, the Deputy Speaker, Dr Paschal Agbodike, who presided over the plenary, directed the clerk, Mr Pius Udo to communicate the resolution to the governor. Agbodike described good road network as an engine for economic development of any state. Meanwhile, the House also resolved that the governor should direct the Commissioner for Works, Mr Marcel Ifejiofor to call back the contractor handling Amansea-Ndiukwuenu-Awa-Ufuma road to site. The resolution followed a motion raised by Mr Emeka Aforka (Orumba North), who drew attention to the pitiable state of the road. According to him, the deplorable state of the road endangered the lives and property of the people of the area and other road users. Aforka said the road, which was awarded in 2013 with huge amount of resources, was yet to be completed. Contributing to the motion, Dr Timothy Ifediroanma (Njikoka I) observed that the road had three link bridges had been completed while one at Okpeze-Amaetiti axis was yet to be completed. Ifedioranma, who is the Chairman House Committee on Works, said the poor state of the road had caused untold hardship to road users and stressed the urgent need to call back the contractor handling the project.  (NAN)