In order to raise the awareness of indigenous languages, the
United Nations declared 2019 as the year of indigenous languages (IY 2019).
This is beneficial not only to the people who speak these languages, but also
for others to appreciate their imperativeness for enhancing world’s rich
cultural diversity. Indigenous languages have originality distinct to a people known
to a peculiar a place. While such languages are national in some countries, in
others they are not. In other words lingua franca of some nations might not
necessarily be indigenous languages. For instance a colonial language, English
language from Britain, is both a lingua franca and sole official national
language in Nigeria. This is a case different from Aymara, alongside Spanish,
that is indigenous and official language of Bolivia. A good number of minority languages, are disappearing at a
fast rate. This is alarming and efforts to put a stop to this trend are
pertinent. Extinction of languages has implications on global diversity in
terms of conservation of culture, environment, traditional knowledge and
economy. Unarguably, culture is the way of people’s life and language is a
major means of transfer and preservation of people defined by peculiarities.
When distinctiveness is eroded, homogeneity of culture leaves us with a
competition of becoming one. The attendant issues from this unification, for
instance poor standard of living and quality of life, are deepened. Most of the
trending world problems and challenges we are grappled with today, including
climate change, stem from gain of foreign languages and culture. This is
one form of globalization, a phenomenon with multiple adverse effects. The effect of colonialism and relatively subsequent
globalization on indigenous languages leaves Africa speaking English, French or
Portuguese as official or business languages. An estimated 2000 languages that
are native to Africa, are subjugated by languages of the global north. This
phenomenon is common in other regions. Though countries like South Africa puts
English fourth among 11 official languages, this seeming preservation is
insignificant given large number of more diverse African countries with foreign
language dominance in the 21st century. To survive extinction and enjoy diversity, language
revitalization is very important. Native indigenous speakers, communities and
the government must accept responsibility of adopting survival strategies.
Language reversal theory and vitality are very effective plans against
extinction. While the former emphasizes autonomy of a particular language, the
later focuses on factors that favour survival of a language. Bilingual or
multilingual education is another strategy that fosters revitalization of dying
indigenous languages. When adopted, students, especially children, are able to
learn other languages at school against sole dependence on national or official
languages that suppress the existence of indigenous languages. Teaching native
languages or, better still, using them as language of instruction, will
increase the diversity content in individuals, communities and nations because
these languages are a vehicle to the economy, culture, education and ecological
enrichment. With this global awareness, the need for stakeholders and
interest groups to revitalize the disappearing indigenous languages cannot be
overemphasized. Germans speak Deutsch, South Koreans speak Hangul and British mainly
speak English. Other indigenous languages should learn and teach theirs too.
Despite challenges associated with mainstreaming of wide language diversity,
continents like Africa with about 2000 languages can develop strategies in favour
of use of indigenous languages as official or business languages to avoid
extinction. Though overwhelming, language revitalization by affected people is
possible through immersive language nest programs targeting young children and
transcending current challenges. Outcomes of this struggle will be worthwhile
and that is why the United Nations proclaimed 2019 the international year of
indigenous languages to draw attention to the critical loss of indigenous
languages and the urgent need to preserve, revitalize and promote indigenous
languages. Acceptance of one, two or three languages as national language(s)
in multilingual countries like Nigeria is very challenging. In such instances,
the absence of native language as lingua franca or national language provides
space for thriving foreign languages, especially those of the global north to
be instituted. So, colonial English language has gained dominance and taken the
driver seat at the expense of indigenous languages, which include Hausa, Igbo
and Yoruba that are spoken by over 60 million people across the country, and
beyond. With globalization propelling tolerance of foreign culture,
one wonders the fate of minor languages that make up estimated 400 of Nigerian
native languages. Of course, they are under pressure and are disappearing. But
their extinction can be halted! Awareness such as this should create change in
attitude towards dying languages. Individuals, religious groups and others like
civic and other nongovernmental organization, should emphasize the importance
of indigenous languages via print and electronic media, books and literature,
history and day to day oral communication. Government at local, state and national levels must support
existence of each language irrespective of numerical status. Highly recommended
are community efforts by affected people to propound revitalization mechanisms
in favour of dying languages. In cities where native language extinction
suffers most, communities must ensure regular meetings to foster speaking of
indigenous language and promotion of culture. Basic things like greetings and
pleasantries are very important. Against this backdrop, dying indigenous
languages would be revitalized. Tukurah is an Indigenous Peoples Advocate and Executive Director, Gbagyi Entertainment Initiative. She can be reached at turs4ril@yahoo.com