Alhaji Adamu Usman, the Commissioner of Police in Niger, on Wednesday, said the state command recorded zero crime during the just concluded Eid-el-Kabir festivities. Usman told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna that officers deployed to man different flash points in the state, essentially demonstrated commitment to duties. ” I am very pleased  with the maturity  demonstrated by residents  at various praying grounds, recreational centres and indeed other public places during and after the Sallah festivities,” he said. He said the command would continue to introduce various security measures to enable residents engage in their legitimate businesses without molestation. He said, “we would continue to be proactive in search of men of the under world, aswell as people with questionable characters for build up of security situation in our areas of supervision. ” By the special grace of God and with hard work, we are fully prepared to deal with those involved in kidnapping, cattle rustling and others criminal  elements in Rafi , Munya, Shiroro Local Government  Areas, once and for all.” He noted that the adopted security measure would sooner than later flush out all those involved  in criminality. ” I will continue to lead various operations within and outside the metropolis to ensure that officers and men are on top of their games,” he said. He solicited the support of the public through voluntary release of reliable information on bad elements in the society.( NAN) The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Kwara Command, said it had deployed 1,500 personnel for the forthcoming Eid-el-Kabir. This information is contained in a press release signed by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Mr Ayodele Bello and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)… August 7, 2019 In "Project" The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has felicitated with Muslim faithful on the occasion of Eid-el-Kabir, urging them to deepen their relationship with Allah and promote a life of sacrifice and love. In a statement, the governor urged all Muslims in the state and beyond to use the opportunity… August 10, 2019 In "News" The police command in Nasarawa State, has deployed 3, 000 of its personnel to ensure a hitch-free and peaceful Eid-el-Fitr in the state. ASP Samaila Usman, the spokesman of the command, made this disclosure in Lafia on Thursday. According to him, the deployment is part of the operational order from… June 14, 2018 In "News"