President of the Senate, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, has
declared that the ninth National Assembly will give its maximum support to the
Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve a better, prosperous
and secured Nigeria for the good of the citizens. “We will make sure the ninth National Assembly gives
him (Buhari) the full support needed to achieve the Next Level agenda in the
interest of our people and the country,” Lawan said in his native home,
Gashua, late Tuesday at a Town Hall meeting to round off a thank you visit to
his constituents in Yobe State. “Though there are pockets of opposition from other
sides, I assure you all that we won’t fail the President,” Lawan told a mammoth
crowd that welcomed him. The Senate President, for two days and for the first
time since his assumption of the leadership of the National Assembly in June,
traversed the six Local Government Areas that make up his Yobe North Senatorial
District. He returned to Abuja on Wednesday after he assured the
people that his colleagues at the National Assembly will endeavour to give good
representation to achieve the set agenda. “I solicit your prayers for all members of the
National Assembly. I recall that I got 79 votes out of 107 Senators who voted
during the Senate presidency election. This is above the All Progressive
Congress votes. “This shows that there is a cordial relationship along
party lines, and that Senators are ready to work for the progress of Nigerians
and Nigeria. “In the current Senate, I have the full cooperation of
the senators from the opposition parties, including the Peoples Democratic
Party, because of the tremendous love and trust shown to us by President
Buhari.” Lawan, however, appeals for patience saying there is
no perfection in human beings. He added, “Where we haven’t performed well, I
encourage you all to draw our attention to it, and as your representatives, we
will work with the President to meet your expectations.” Before departing Yobe State on Wednesday, Lawan
announced a donation of ten million naira to the victims of the flood incident
in his Local Government Area of Bade pending the intervention of the National
Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). The Senate President assured his constituents in Yobe
North that he would strengthen his efforts to meet their expectations, and in
this regard announced his decision to double his intervention in the area of
education for the poorest of the families by paying the tuition of anyone who
secure admission into tertiary institution.