#TrackNigeria –Borno
‎Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum on Sunday traveled to Gubio local
government area of northern part of the state where he spent the most of the
day, raising public confidence after soldiers of the 5 brigade repelled dozens
of Boko Haram fighters who stormed the council at 6pm, leading into seven hours
of gun battle that ended 1am. The Governor’s trip came after he set aside
activities lined up for the sallah celebration including a lunch with
stakeholders of the governing APC and a traditional visit of the Shehu of
Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai Al-Amin Elkanemi to the government
house, which usually takes place at 4pm of every sallah day. Zulum postponed
the Shehu’s visit to Monday, putting security first. The Governor, alongside
a member of the house of representatives representing Gubio, Kaga and Magumeri Federal
Constituency, Usman Zannah and some government officials, first visited
headquarters of the ‎5 brigade in Gubio town where a meeting, hosted by the
Brigade’s commander, Colonel I.A Ajose and attended by the theatre commander,
operation lafiya dole, Major General Benson Akinroloyo and the caretaker
chairman of Gubio, Zannah Modu Gubio and other government officials, was held. Caretaker chairman, Modu
informed Governor Zulum that were it not for a gallant resistance by soldiers
of the Brigade, the insurgents could have gained control of Gubio on the sallah
eve. Addressing a developing
apprehension raised by the caretaker chairman on whether the Brigade was exiting
 Gubio town, theatre Commander Benson,
who oversees the fight against insurgency, assured Governor Zulum that the Army
was going to maintain its presence. He however admitted that the Army was
changing strategy, part of which include operational movement of troops from
one location to another. Governor Zulum praised
the 5 brigade for the gallantry and patriotism of soldiers under the command.
He said Borno government will sustain its support for the military by
interventions on logistics, funding of volunteers in the Civilian JTF, hunters
and vigilantes who complement the military in fighting insurgents as well as
continued mobilization of citizens to cooperate and support the military. From the Brigade
headquarters,Governor Zulum moved to Gubio township centre and addressed
hundreds of citizens around district head’s palace.  He assured them of
the military’s continued presence. The Governor presented additional patrol
vehicles to more than 300 volunteers of the Civilian JTF and vigilantes helping
with community surveillance, intelligence gathering and sometimes, fighting
alongside the military in front lines.