The Vice-Chancellor, Kaduna State University (KASU), Prof. Muhammad Tanko, said on Monday that the institution was promoting research through collaboration with local and foreign universities, to effectively respond to societal problems and needs. Tanko made this known at the opening of a two-day International Conference, organised by the Faculty of Social Sciences, Kaduna State University. Its theme is entitled, “Contemporary Issues in Social Sciences Research”. Tanko, who was represented on the occasion by the Vice-Chancellor Academics, Prof. Abdullahi Ashafa, said that the university gave premium to research, to solve societal problems and contribute to sustainable national development. He noted that the university had, so far, entered into collaboration with more than 10 foreign universities in the U.S., Japan, Malaysia and Europe. Tanko said the collaboration was in different areas of research in response to human needs, saying that KASU would soon finalise collaboration with the World Health Organisation (WHO), also on research. “I commended the Faculty of Social Sciences for organising yet another international conference, to look into social sciences research in addressing the myriad of problems confronting humanity. “KASU will continue to do its best in promoting research, to remain relevant not only in training of intellectuals but in finding solutions to societal problems that will ensure the growth and development of our dear nation,’’ the vice-chancellor said. The Chairman of the occasion, Prof. Yahaya Zakari, noted that human behaviour had continued to change, hence the need for new ideas in research methodology that would provide accurate answers to research questions. Zakari, a former Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Federal University, Gusau, noted that the conference would improve knowledge and capacity of academics, to finding answers to the nation’s problems and recommend viable solutions. The Keynote Speaker, Alhaji Ghali Na’Abba, a former Speaker, House of Representatives, spoke on the topic, “Collegiality in Governance: A Panacea for Sustainable Development”. According to him, what is required is the creation and sustenance of trust, building and maintenance of institutional cooperation and frameworks that will ensure socio-economic growth and stability for sustainable development. “In such a situation, intellectual discourse remains the most appropriate tool to employ in search of solution to interrogate some of the questions besetting the country and come up with appropriate remedies,’’ Na’Abba said. He described the conference as apt and called for sustainable development. (NAN)