#TrackNigeria: The Anambra Police Command on Tuesday confirmed that one person died while seven others sustained injuries when hoodlums tried to prevent its operatives from arresting fleeing criminals in Onitsha metropolis. The spokesperson of the command, Mr Haruna Mohammed, who confirmed the casualty figures, said that the incident occurred at about 1pm at Obosi New Park, Onitsha. “There was an intelligence report that some suspects, who escaped from custody, were seen at that place and the police mobilised and went there to make arrests. “They were, however, stopped by some hoodlums who attempted to disarm a policeman. “The policeman tried to liberate himself from them, but they refused. So he had to use his fire arm and unfortunately, it hit one of them. “The victim was rushed to a hospital but was confirmed dead,” Mohammed said. The hoodlums, who became angry at the death of the man, went on rampage, blocking the Onitsha–Owerri road. Although their activities disrupted vehicular movement for about 45 minutes, it took the intervention of reinforced police team and the local security guards to disperse the rampaging hoodlums. “So far the area is calm and the Commissioner of Police has ordered an investigation to ascertain the cause of the incident,” Mohammed added. The police spokesman declined comment on whether the wanted criminals were later arrested. (NAN) Gunmen on Sunday killed two men, a policeman and an okay rider, in another church in Anambra State. The killing is coming exactly a week after gunmen stormed St. Philips Catholic Church in Ozubulu, Anambra State, killing close to 20 persons. This time around, the church attacked was the Assemblies… August 13, 2017 In "News" #TrackNigeria: The Police Command in Anambra has rescued Mr Chimieze Abordike, 28, who was kidnapped at Ilongwodo-Ogidi in Idemili North Local Government Area of the state by suspected armed robbery gang. The Command’s Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Haruna Mohammed disclosed this in a statement made available to newsmen in… May 18, 2019 In "Crime & Police" By Francis Onyeukwu #TrackNigeria: Police have confirmed the release of the abducted member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) deployed to Indiokolo community in Orumba area of Anambra as electoral ad hoc staff. Also, the state coordinator of NYSC, Mr Aremu Kehinde, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the female… February 23, 2019 In "Featured"