By Danlami Nmodu The Presidency has moved to allay fears over reports which seemed to suggest  that the role of the Chief of Staff to President Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, has changed. A statement by Mallam Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President (Media & Publicity) said Saturday night that “This is not the case”. According
to Shehu, “Recent media and social media reports on the responsibilities of the
Chief of Staff to the President have suggested that the role has changed. This
is not the case.” The Presidential Spokesman noted that essentially, the role of the Chief of Staff “is to act as the head of the presidential administration at Aso Rock; to be an adviser to the President on any and all matters; to be the line manager for all staff at Aso Rock; and to manage appointments and scheduling for the President.” He
added that “When President Buhari explained to ministers that they would be
expected to communicate with him and arrange scheduling to meet with him
primarily via the Chief of Staff, he did so as many of the Buhari II Cabinet
ministerial appointments are new appointments and cannot therefore be expected
to know how matters of liaising with the President operate.” The
full text of the clarification signed by Garba Shehu titled: “Statement
On The Roles Of Chief Of Staff And SGF” reads thus: “Recent
media and social media reports on the responsibilities of the Chief of Staff to
the President have suggested that the role has changed. This is not the case. “Today,
under the Buhari II administration the role of Chief of Staff remains the same
as it was under Buhari I. “It
is worth stressing that the role and responsibilities of the Chief of Staff and
the method of communication and arranging scheduling between Cabinet members
and the President are, in Nigeria, based on the US model, where the same system
operates – and has done for decades – in precisely the same way. “That
role is to act as the head of the presidential administration at Aso Rock; to
be an adviser to the President on any and all matters; to be the line manager
for all staff at Aso Rock; and to manage appointments and scheduling for the
President. “In
the traditional presidential system, it is a primary function of a Chief of
Staff, which may vary according to the needs and desires of each President, to
supervise key State House Staff, control access to the office and the person of
the President, manage communications and information flow and this includes
that which binds the relationship with the two other arms of government. “During
the President’s first term those were the responsibilities of the Chief of
Staff, and they remain the same responsibilities today. There is no change. “When
President Buhari explained to ministers that they would be expected to
communicate with him and arrange scheduling to meet with him primarily via the
Chief of Staff, he did so as many of the Buhari II Cabinet ministerial
appointments are new appointments and cannot therefore be expected to know how
matters of liaising with the President operate. “This
is to stress that access to the President is open to ministers. It is not true
that this is denied them in the Second Term. “The
Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) on the other hand is
responsible for ensuring the effective coordination and monitoring of the
implementation of government policies and programmes. All cabinet matters must
go through him. “Under
this dispensation, a performance evaluation of ministers and Permanent
Secretary will be maintained by the SGF. Two weeks after assuming office, they
are expected to sign mandate acceptance documents. “It is time to end the unnecessary controversy, for the key appointees of the President to carry out their jobs.” Newsdiaryonline reports that President Buhari had told his minister  last week that, ”In terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channeled through the Chief of Staff, while all Federal Executive Council matters be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the Federation.”  #TrackNigeria