Friends and family of late Nigerian media personality, Tosyn Bucknor, have paid homage to her memory on the occasion of what would have been her thirty-eighth birthday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the On-Air-Personality died on Nov. 19, 2018, due to sickle cell complications. Until her death, she was a staff of Inspiration FM, where she hosted a morning talk show. Her French husband, Aurélien Boyer took to Instagram to remember her birthday. He wrote: “Yesterday in my arms, forever in His. You would be 38 today. But more importantly, God blesses us with 37 years by your side. Happy posthumous birthday, Wyfo. Rest on well.” Bucknor and Boyer had their traditional wedding surrounded by family and friends in Lagos, in 2015,  followed by a white wedding in France. Her sister, Funke Bucknor wrote:  “Happy birthday sister of mine. Everyone has been supportive by calling , praying and just generally being kind. “Your first (posthumous) birthday without our usual ritual. Keep on shining on my super smart, intelligent, talented, kind and gentle Tosyn Bucknor. “The voice of Lagos. We miss you, mummy misses you , oloruko misses you, omowale misses you , your friends really miss you, the world misses you.” Actress and producer, Lala Akindoju wrote, “My sister’s sister, my friend’s bestie, my friend. I actually really feel your absence. Lamide and FBO miss you so much more. Happy posthumous birthday Tosyn.” @motosinoluwathe1st wrote, “Tosyn I miss you, I miss those random DMs and calls , I miss hearing you call me “my almost namesake. Happy birthday superstar, turn it up for them today up there.” NAN reports that she was also a blogger, a recording artist, singer and songwriter, having worked with artists including Skales, Rooftop MCs, Eva, as well as producers like Sess and Cobhams.(NAN) Oluwatosin ‘Tosyn’ Bucknor, an on-air-personality (OAP )with Inspiration FM, has died aged 37. Tosyn, as she was popularly known, was found dead by husband, Aurelien Boyer, a French national, when he arrived home from work on Monday night. A graduate of law from the University of Lagos, Tosyn was born… November 20, 2018 In "News" Actress and former BB Naija Double Wahala housemate, Bamike Olawunmi (Bambam) has received a car gift from her fans on the occasion of her 30th birthday The actress and dancer, who clock 30 on Tuesday, posted a photo of the Honda Crosstour ‘Birthday Gift’ on her Instagram page. Fans of… April 23, 2019 In "Society News" President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with the wife of late legal luminary and human rights activist, Mrs Ganiyat Fawehinmi, on her 70th birthday. A statement by the President’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Saturday, said the president joined family and friends Mrs Fawehinmi in… May 25, 2019 In "News"