By Tina George, Minna Senator Mohammed Sani Musa and former Niger governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu have in different messages eulogized former military president, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida on his 78th birthday. The duo said the former Military Leader is the most experienced leader Nigeria has ever had, who is passionate on the indivisiblity of Nigeria. In a Birthday statement signed by Senator Sani Musa, he said Babangida has remained an inspiration to many, especially young politicians and is always ready to proffer advice for the advancement of democracy in the nation. According to him, when taken, the counsel of Babangida has always yielded positive results. Musa added that Niger East Senatorial District is proud to have General Ibrahim Babangida who despite resigning from active politics has continued to contribute positively towards the development of the area, the state and Nigeria as a whole. “General Babangida is indeed a leader whose influence traverses beyond the shores of Nigeria. While he was the President, he played a great role in the unity of Africa, particularly in the struggle against apartheid regime in South Africa. “We are proud of him, and will continue to celebrate his iconic leadership and lifestyle,” Senator Sani Musa said. He congratulated Babangida on attaining 78 years praying the Almighy Allah to continue to grant General Babangida good health, more wisdom and guidance, while praying that he lived to witness many more years ahead. “I pray that Almighty Allah continue to bless him with good health, more wisdom and more years ahead. I also pray that Baba live to witness many more years. We need him and his uncommon wisdom still.” Speaking to newsmen in Minna, former Niger state Governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu congratulated the Elder statesman on his birthday saying Nigerians still need him around as an elder, Leader and an Adviser. “I am happy that he is still alive and helping us. He advises us, he warns us, he reconciles us and he has been very busy with affairs of Nigeria  and the world over. “We are happy he has reached 78 and we are counting. We hope he stays far longer for us. He is the most experienced leader we have had in this part of the world and we need him around as an Elder, a Leader and an Adviser.” Aliyu also appreciated the former Military President for sacrificing himself, his comfort and materials in helping Nigerians.