Every election
cycle in Nigeria has three seasons. The campaign season belongs to the parties,
the politicians and their godfathers. This is followed by the voting season,
during which the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral
Commission (INEC) hold sway. Thereafter, matters shift to the courts for the
dispute resolution season, which belongs to the lawyers (mostly Senior
Advocates of Nigeria, SANs) and judges. Democracy may be
about choices and decisions by citizens in theory. As practised in Nigeria,
however, what is clear from these three seasons is that there is very little
room in it for the average citizen. If they are anything, citizens are mostly
spectators. Election tribunals generally have about six months to decide on contested declarations by the INEC. With elections to federal offices concluded on 23 February and to state offices on 9 March 2019, we are now approaching the season where the courts must begin to announce their decisions. This is usually an uneasy time for candidates, parties, lawyers and judges alike. Election petitions have become a major part of the work of judges around Africa and a defining moment in the public perception of the courts. Quite apart from being a moment of serious stress for the judges and lawyers who participate in them, election petitions are major sources of disagreements among judges. In every election, the judges have the final votes. Of 1,490 seats contested federally and in the states in 2019, 776 (52.08%) will be decided by the courts. This is higher than 46.1% recorded in 2015 and 51% recorded in 2011 but lower than the high of 86.35% from the nadir of 2007. Elections entail
both choices and disagreements among all involved, including judges. In
Nigeria, every election petition is heard by a panel of three, five or seven
judges. Where they don’t agree unanimously, the judges will decide by majority
vote. To win, a party must have the votes of two judges out of three (first
instance); three judges out of five (appeal) or four judges out of seven
(Supreme Court). Where there is such disagreement, there will be dissents.
Disagreements among judges in elections petitions can mirror disagreements
among citizens in the elections. More than any other area, election dispute
resolution is replete with dissents Few things are
as interesting in judicial decision making generally as dissents, a subject
matter on which sentiments diverge. Some judges and lawyers take the view that
judicial dissents are “something like judicial treason.” William Douglas, whose
36 years as an Associate Justice make him the longest serving judge in the
history of the United States Supreme Court described the right to dissent as
“the only thing that makes life tolerable for a judge.” The heightened
role of judges in elections is essentially a feature of the presidential system
of government. In Nigeria, Kayode Eso handed down the first notable dissent in
this field in the Supreme Court  decision in Obafemi Awolowo’s challenge
to the victory of Shehu Shagari in the 1979 presidential election. While six of
the Seven Justices led by Chief Justice Atanda Fatayi-Williams, ruled that the
elections were in “substantial compliance” with the law, Eso, the junior
Justice on the panel, filed a memorable dissent disagreeing with both the
conclusion of the Court and its reasoning concerning the applicable burdens of
proof. The quality of
decision making in election petitions has not always been clear. Sometimes, the
decisions of the courts appear mutually contradictory or inexplicably
divergent. Following the elections in September 1983, the Supreme Court of
Nigeria was presented with two cases arising respectively from the governorship
elections in Anambra and Ondo States. The issues were broadly the same. The
then ruling party, the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) was credibly accused of
having rigged the elections in both states, enabling the Federal Electoral
Commission (FEDECO) to announce NPN candidates as winners when they should have
been losers. In Anambra, there was a murmur of protest but the citizens mostly
went back to their businesses. In Ondo State, the citizens decided to make the
State ungovernable. On 31
December, the Supreme Court upheld the Anambra governorship
election by a majority of six to one but by the same margin, the same court
invalidated the Ondo election. Hours later, on the night of the same day, the
military sacked the elected government in Nigeria, announcing Major-General
Muhammadu Buhari as military Head of State. It is not only
in Nigeria that courts can announce incomprehensible outcomes in election
petitions. In 2006, Uganda’s Supreme Court considered an election petition by
opposition candidate, Kizza Besigye, against incumbent President, Yoweri
Museveni. In its decision, the Court concluded that “there was non-compliance
with the provisions of the Constitution, Presidential Elections Act and the
Electoral Commission Act, in the conduct of the 2006 Presidential Elections”;
that there was “disenfranchisement of voters by deleting their names from the
voters register or denying them the right to vote” and that “the principle of
free and fair elections was compromised by bribery and intimidation or violence
in some areas of the country.” Nevertheless, Chief Justice Benjamin Odoki led
three other judges in a majority of four to uphold the outcome in favour of
Museveni. William Hirt
wrote that dissents among judges “like homicide, fall into three categories – excusable,
justifiable, and reprehensible.” The decision of Nigeria’s Court of Appeal in
the case concerning the contest over the Anambra South senatorial seat in 2004
produced a dissent in the justifiable category. It turns out that Justices
Okwuchukwu Opene and David Adeniji apparently accepted gratification from or on
behalf of Senator Ugochukwu Uba to hand him a favorable outcome. In May 2005,
following the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC), President
Obasanjo fired them as Justices of Appeal. Justice Kumai Akaahs, who dissented
in that case, currently sits on the Supreme Court and will retire on 12 December 2019. Sometimes, the
decisions in election petitions are plainly dodgy. When it decided the election
petition against the outcome of the December 2012 presidential election filed
by then opposition candidate, Nana Akuffo-Addo, on 29 August 2013, Ghana’s
Supreme Court announced a majority of six against three in favour of upholding
the declaration of President Mahama as winner. Economist, George Ayittey, would
later write that the announced decision was “bungled. There was an inexplicable
4-hour delay in announcing the verdict, fueling speculation that something
fishy was going on behind the scenes. Then Justice Atuguba announced a 6-3
verdict dismissing the petition. A day later, the verdict was changed to 5-4.”
In a study of the judgment published in 2014 under the title The Burdens of
Democracy in Africa: How Courts Sustain Presidential Elections, late
Nigerian lawyer, Bamidele Aturu, showed that five of the nine Justices who sat
on that election petition in fact ordered partial or total rerun of the
election. In effect, rather than the announced majority of six –three in favour
of President Mahama, the verdict was in fact five-four against him. Election
petitions often, if not nearly always, involve what Olu Adeniran of the Obafemi
Awolowo University, Ife, described in a 1982 article as “compromise between law
and political expediency.” The ways in which these compromises are struck vary
from case to case. The reasons and motives of the judges involved are also
diverse. Quite clearly, however, the politicians watch the judges closely and
do take notice. In 2007, Muhammadu Buhari, then opposition candidate who lost
to Umaru Yar’Adua in Nigeria’s Presidential election, petitioned a tribunal. In
the Court of Appeal, Sylvanus Nsofor dissented from the panel of three
Justices. When the case went to the Supreme Court, George Oguntade, Aloma
Mukhtar and Walter Onnoghen also dissented from the panel of seven, which ruled
in favour of Yar’Adua. When he
eventually won the Presidency in 2015, Muhammadu Buhari appointed Oguntade, by
the long retired from the Supreme Court, as his Ambassador to the United
Kingdom and Nsofor, also long retired from the Court of Appeal, as his
Ambassador to the United States. For some inexplicable reason, Buhari showed
marked reluctance in appointing Onnoghen as Chief Justice in March 2017. In
January 2019, shortly before another election that was fated to end up before
the courts, Buhari brutally terminated Onnoghen’s judicial tenure.