Nigerians are increasingly conscious that
they urgently need to be governed. The general feeling in the country is that
we have not been governed for an extremely long time and the consequences are
the spread on insecurity, growing poverty and misery and significant decline in
social provisioning as education and health in particular are only available to
Nigerians who can pay for them privately. For a long time, municipal services
such as potable water and electricity have also been available only through self-help
efforts by citizens. The clearest evidence of non-governance has
been the rapid growth of ungoverned spaces where police services have been
absent for decades and outlaws, kidnappers and bandits are in almost complete
control of the territory and do what they please while inhabitants have the
terrible choice of abandoning their cherished homelands for the terrible life
characterised by the misery and uncertainties of life as internally displaced
persons or be brave, stay at home and suffer the travails of violence, rape,
arson, abduction and scorched earth. The transition to the second term of
President Buhari has obviously deepened the problem of non-governance. The
President had announced with fanfare that he would not be a “Baba go-slow” in
his second term and government business would be conducted with the required
speed the seriousness of our challenges imposes on us. That was the time we all
realised that Oga President was aware of what we had been saying – that he had
been governing very lackadaisically as if he had  all the time in the world while the realty
was we have had a myriad of problems that all required urgent responses. So, he
knew and still refused to accelerate government responses to the problems
confronting us. Some of us thought that this time, ministers would be appointed
quickly so as not to repeat the problems of the first term when we went six
months without ministers and above all with no governmental decisions taken. Let us not forget that our Constitution
places the power of the Executive in one person, the President. At the same
time, the Constitution, conscious of the fact that the President cannot alone
execute the vast array of governmental processes, requires that ministers,
advisers and heads of parastatals be appointed to help the President carry out
the huge responsibility of executing government policies. At the beginning of
the Buhari Administration in 2015, there was a general expectation that he
would hit the ground running. This was because we were told he had a blue print
and he had used the two-months between his election and inauguration to consult
extensively with his political allies. Having sought for power for over a
decade, it was assumed that he knew exactly what he wanted to do with the power
when he gets it. It turned out that he needed a long time to decide what he
wanted to do with the power. The second term is an opportunity to
complete the vision enunciated with the first term and leave a legacy. Having
been on the post for four years, the expectation was that he knew exactly what
to do this time and he even announced he would move very fast. It did not
happen. When the Ruga controversy emerged, there was no coherent response from
government and different officials were talking at cross purposes doing great
damage to the regime. Over the past few weeks, the killing of policemen in
Taraba and the Tiv-Jukun revenge killings in the same Taraba, frequent changes
in army commands, crisis in the anti-corruption agencies, investigation of the
Head of Service for corruption, mishandling of the El-Zakzaky passage to India
all indicate chaos in government. The Senate had to put pressure on the
President to submit his list of ministers, which they treated with dispatch
only for the President to announce he would take his time before assigning them
to ministries. Whatever anyone says, the overriding attitude of Muhammadu
Buhari is that the issues will wait until the President is ready to act on
them. The obvious reality is that governing
Nigeria is no easy task and our problems are so many and so deep that
governance processes have to be pursued with urgency. The security situation in
the country has continued to deteriorate and the security agencies are not only
over-stretched, but appear to have lost the will to address the problems. The
economy is in deep problem, we have a massive payments crisis, petroleum
subsidies have mounted so high that they consume all our revenue and everything
else is done on loans that we might not have the capacity to repay and yet the
economic team is still not on its posts. As the transition between the previous
administration and the next one drags, we are once again seeing the problem of
non-governance. If you do not make political appointments, civil servants make
all the political decisions, including the most important decision of NOT TO
MAKE DECISIONS. Sometimes, civil servants do not want to make decisions so that
they do not get noticed or disturbed as they enjoy the perquisites of power,
including the most harmful one of looting public funds. When therefore the
president does not appoint people to govern, those at the head of governmental
organisations create forms of governance linked to prolonging their temporary
positions. Achieving policy goals of the government cannot be their priority
because their logic is that they are there for a short time until the president
decides on who should do the job on a full-time basis. As tenures of temporary
heads extend from weeks to months and in many cases to years, governance
crisis. There are today dozens of “temporary” heads of parastatals that
expected to be out of office in June 2015 but are still on post. Some of them
naturally realised they could envisage permanency on the jobs and above all
start working towards it and succeeded. Governance, as we all know, is a continuous
process
of decision-making and interaction in all organisations, governments, markets,
families, non-governmental organisations and so on. Governance is therefore the
rules, norms, power equations, actions and processes through which
organisations achieve objectives that have been defined. It is for this reason
that organisations give specific mandates to people they appoint to achieve the
set objectives. When that is not done, those who find themselves in the
position use the opportunity to achieve their own objectives. Governance is a
normative concept that underscores whether expectations and objectives have
been met or not. It is for this reason that we talk of fair, good and bad
governance. The norms refer to respect to the interests and expectations of
stakeholders and are therefore about accountability. When you do not appoint
people that are responsible to you, those in position address other interests.
It is for this reason that the permanent advice to presidents is to set up
their teams quickly and make them understand their mandate. Let us hope that
would happen in the coming days and weeks. All eyes are on the President to see whether a new more
effective security team would emerge. There is a general consensus that the
current team has failed and leaving them in their positions would lead to a
worsening of the security situation. During his first term, the President was
unable to develop a legislative agenda because of the feud he had with the then
leadership of the National Assembly. This time he has the leadership he wanted
and could return to the missed agenda of 2015. The
first is the reduction of the cost of governance through carrying out
legislation that would enable the implementation of the Oronsanye Report of
rationalising government agencies. This issue has become more complicated because
the last National Assembly has created numerous agencies on their own they may
want to retain. Closing down and/or merging numerous parastatals that are
duplication governmental mandates and draining resources is a task that must be
accomplished. The Second item on the President’s 2015 legislative agenda was
the Petroleum Industry Bill, which he had announced would be prioritized within
the first quarter of the Administration. The National Assembly towards the end
of its tenure completed the Bill but it did not receive Presidential assent. The
third was merging and/or strengthening the anti-corruption agencies to ease the
anti-corruption commitments of the Government. The fourth item was the
Electoral Act, which became a ping pong between the President and the National
Assembly. Ministers should have been in place addressing all these issues.