To many discerning observers of
Nigeria’s humanitarian crisis, it is heartwarming that President Muhammadu
Buhari deemed it fit to create a Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management and Social Development, headed by Hajia Sadiya Umar-Farouq. 
This is a brand new ministry which is meant to provide solutions to the plight
of millions of Internally Displaced Persons(IDPs)  as well as coordinate humanitarian affairs and
social development in the country. Truth be told, having a ministry in
charge of the aforementioned areas is long overdue. The country, in the last 10
years, has been in the throes of insurgency in the North-East, especially in
Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. This insurgency has created a lot of social
dislocation and millions of IDPs. According to an August 2019 report from
Médecins Sans Frontières, (Doctors without Borders), “It is estimated that
about 35,000 people have been killed since 2009, 1.8 million people are
internally displaced, and 7.1 million people are in need of humanitarian
assistance across the northeastern states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe. Around
230,000 people have fled to the neighbouring countries of Niger, Chad and
Cameroon”. This is not much different from the
report from the United Nations Office for the Coordination for Humanitarian
Affairs better known as OCHA which says that, “As of 2019, 1.8 million
Nigerians have fled from their homes and are internally displaced, the majority
in Borno State – the epicentre of the crisis. 80 per cent of internally displaced
people are women and children, and one in four is under the age of five.” Prior to the advent of the Boko
Haram insurgency in 2009, Nigeria had witnessed a lot of IDP cases in the
Bakassi area of Cross River State as well as due to sectarian crises and natural
disasters across the country. Even now, banditry in the North-West, especially
in Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and Kaduna states has led to the creation of
hundreds of thousands of the IDPs. The situation is similar to what is
happening in the North-Central region of the country, especially in Plateau,
Benue and Nasarawa states where several thousands of people have been displaced
as a result of herders/ farmers’ clashes. According to the Internal
Displacement Monitoring Centre report, “In 2018, 541,000 new displacements were
recorded in Nigeria, 200,000 of which took place in the Middle Belt region and
the rest as a result of the Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East. About 2.2
million people remained displaced due to these conflicts as of the end of the
year. Flooding affected 80 per cent of the country last year and triggered most
of the 613,000 new displacements recorded.” What all these statistics revealed
is that having a ministry to take care of disaster management and humanitarian
affairs is very desirable. There is so much work to be done for the pioneer
minister. Luckily, Farouq has prior experience in managing these issues as a
former Federal Commissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants
and Internally Displaced Persons, a post she held from September 26, 2016 to
July 2019 when she was nominated as a minister. I am of the considered opinion that
being from Zamfara State, one of the states in the jugular of banditry, she
already knows what it means to have humanitarian needs. Thus, she should be
able to do all in her power to ameliorate the sufferings of the IDPs. My agenda for her is to see to the
full implementation of the African Union Convention for the Protection and
Assistance of Internally Displaced Persons in Africa otherwise known as the
Kampala Convention. This convention came into being in 2009. According to a
February 2018 report from HelpAge International,” By adopting the Convention,
the AU member states took a vital step to strengthen the protection of the rights
of some of the most vulnerable people on the continent. The Kampala Convention
puts in place an African legal framework to prevent internal displacement, to
protect and assist people during displacement, and to provide durable solutions
for displaced people. It came into force in December 2012”. It is shameful that the country does
not have a robust national policy on the IDPs as the Federal Government only in
January this year pledged to adopt a national policy on internal displacement.
This is long overdue. A national policy on the IDPs will articulate a proper
response on rights and privileges of this vulnerable group while in the camp as
well as process of resettlement. I also expect that with the advent
of this new ministry, there will be better coordination of humanitarian
services in Nigeria. Right now, hundreds of national and international
Non-Governmental Organisations are working to provide relief services to
victims of insurgency and natural disasters across the country. However, their
efforts are not well-coordinated while some of them have been accused of
corrupt practices.  I should expect that all the local and international
humanitarian agencies will be registered by this ministry for proper monitoring
and evaluation of their activities. I do also hope that the safety and
security of organisations providing humanitarian services across the country
will be enhanced with the coming into existence of the Ministry of Humanitarian
Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. Recall that a total of 37
aid workers have been killed in Nigerian’s volatile northeast region since the
crisis there began a decade ago. That is according to the United Nations on
Tuesday, August 20, 2019. Scores of other aid workers have also been abducted
while providing humanitarian services. Six of them working with an
international humanitarian group were reportedly abducted on July 18 by Boko
Haram insurgents in Borno State. The minister owes the country a
blueprint or road map on national disaster management. Incidentally, the
country does not have one yet, to the best of my knowledge. It will therefore
be important to draft one with the technical assistance from 
international partners. When done, it should be religiously implemented. Hopefully, with the coming into
existence of this vital ministry, the National Emergency Management Agency,
Victims Support Fund, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in
Persons and other agencies that will be under the supervision of the ministry
will perform better. Now that social development has been carved out of the
Ministry of Women Affairs, it is my prayer that issues regarding Persons with
Disabilities hitherto being handled by Ministry of Women Affairs will receive a
prime attention in the new ministry. One sure way to start for the minister is
to see to full implementation of the Disability Act signed into law on January
23, 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari. One of the key highlights of that Act is
the establishment of a National Disability Commission. This should be set up
without further delay. The immediate challenge the new
ministry may face is that of funding since it is new and was not budgeted for
in the 2019 Appropriation Act. However, it is my hope that it will be
well-funded in the 2020 budget currently being prepared for submission to
National Assembly next month or thereabout. I charge the minister to prudently
manage the resources of the ministry and curb the sharp practices allegedly
being perpetrated by government officials involved in disaster management and
humanitarian services. Follow me on Twitter @jideojong