The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has endowed a Professional Chair in Oncology which is the study and treatment of cancer at the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT), an official said. NDDC’s Acting Managing Director, Prof. Nelson Brambaifa, made disclosure in a statement by the commission’s Director of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili in Port Harcourt on Thursday. Brambaifa spoke at the opening of the 59th Annual General Meeting and Scientific Conference of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) in Rivers. According to him, NDDC is passionate to provide access to quality healthcare as well as promote healthy practices in the Niger Delta. “So, NDDC will endow a Professional Chair in Oncology in UNIPORT. This follows a similar endowment of a professional chair in malaria research for the same university in 2016. “Our mission is to facilitate sustainable development of the region with intent to improve health and well-being of the people. “NDDC is intervening in healthcare delivery through the provision of infrastructure and providing access to free healthcare to more indigent communities in the region,” he said. The managing director said the new management after taking office in 2018 resumed the defunct free healthcare programme to communities. “The programme has been one of the most significant interventions by NDDC. So far, the free healthcare has treated over 1.2 million documented patients. “The treatment ranges from simple diagnosis to complicated surgeries carried out in about 3,500 communities with 6,000 referral cases,” he added. Brambaifa assured the people of the commission’s willingness to partner with NMA to bring quality healthcare services to communities. Also, Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers commended NDDC for partnering with the medical association to conduct medical outreach programmes for people living with disabilities in the state. Represented by the Deputy Gov. Ipalibo Banigo, Wike said studies had shown that social factors, such as lifestyle, education, housing, agriculture and environment played major role in living condition. On his part, Rivers branch Chairman of NMA, Dr Obelebra Adebiyi, said that non-communicable diseases was the leading causes of death in the world. “Diseases of long duration and slow progression can only be managed through behavioural change and adoption of healthy lifestyle,” he said. (NAN)