By Danlami Nmodu The Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC has debunked reports linking the  Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba
Kyari to its investigation of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation,
Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita. A statement by Wilson Uwujaren, Head,
Media & Publicity, EFCC  said Monday,
“there is no truth in these claims” Uwujaren said investigations by EFCC are  “evidence-based. Most often,they  are triggered by petitions or intelligence. In the case of the HoS, Oyo- Ita’s investigation, it was prompted by intelligence received by the Commission.” The EFCC statement reads thus: “The attention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has been drawn to reports by a section  of the media, insinuating that the ongoing investigation of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita by the Commission was instigated by the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari. “The Commission wishes to state that there is no truth in these claims, and urges the general public to disregard the reports as the handiwork of mischief makers. “For the avoidance of doubt,
investigation by the EFCC is evidence-based. Most often,they  are
triggered by petitions or intelligence. In the case of the HoS, Oyo- Ita’s
investigation, it was prompted by intelligence received by the Commission. “The EFCC is an independent agency created by law to fight corruption without fear or favour. In the discharge of its mandate, the Commission does not take instructions from extraneous bodies neither will it lend itself to be used to settle scores by anyone. “The Commission again wishes to
appeal to the media to be circumspect in their reportage and not lend
themselves to actions that could befuddle the activities of the Commission.” Newsdiaryonline  recently reported
exclusive,  amazing details of EFCC investigation
into alleged fraud over which she was quizzed.She has however resumed work and
was sighted at the inauguration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s cabinet at the
Presidential Villa last week.