#TrackNigeria — The Free Zakzaky Campaign Committee Chairman, Abdurrahman Abubakar Yola   has officially confirmed that  the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky and his wife have  left Nigeria for India alongside some family members and security operatives. The Zakzaky group which confirmed the development in a statement ,Monday, expressed gratitude to those who stood by them in the struggle for their leader. “We wish to use this opportunity to thank all people of conscience, particularly the team of lawyers being led by Femi Falana SAN, some very senior citizens,  diplomats, human rights activists and organizations, journalists and the general public who doggedly stood by us in the campaign for justice for the victims of Zaria genocide. Thank you and God bless,” the statement said. According the  Free Zakzaky Campaign Committee, Monday;’s
trip followed the granting of the couple’s application for leave to seek
medical attention in New Delhi, India last week by Justice Darius Khobo of
Kaduna State High Court. The statement added, “In spite of
the attempted efforts at frustrating this emergency medical journey by the
Kaduna state government, which tried to unilaterally put conditions to the
journey even though it lacked such powers, the journey has gone on without much
hitches. “This emergency medical journey is
consequent on the facts that both the Sheikh and his wife are known to be
clearly very ill in detention, sequel to the brutal wounds unjustifiably
inflicted on them by the state agents in the name of Nigerian army, the
resultant prolonged dehumanizing detention in the custody of the Department of
State Security (DSS) and the obvious poisoning of the Sheikh. As a result of
all these physical and psychological stresses, the Sheikh suffered series of
mild strokes and is at the risk of further recurrences. The group ned that “At the same
time, he lost one eye following the military attack and is at a severe risk of
losing sight completely in the other. He is now found to have more than twenty
times the toxic levels of lead poison in his body! Similarly, the wife has been
under excruciating pains with shrapnel deeply lodged in her body for all these
years of inhuman conditions in detention. “She now is able to ambulate only
with the use of a wheelchair, even to the airport. They have been battling
ailments that could not be treated in Nigeria, as posited by the foreign
medical experts that earlier in the year assessed their health condition.
Undoubtedly, both risk losing their lives had the medical journey been further
delayed or denied.