The Argungu Unit Command of the
Federal Road Safety Corps  has returned  the sum of four hundred and
sixteen thousand naira to victims of road crash that occurred on Saturday 17
August 2019 by 0905 hrs along bye pass on Argungu – Birni Kebbi road near
College Of Education,  Argungu. In release issued by the zonal public
Education officer ACC Aliyu Maaji, it was revealed that  the crash
involved a Toyota Carina 2 with registration number YYB 117 AA and a Toyota
pick up van registered AA 98 GWN. Four persons, all males were involved. Three
of them were injured but no fatality.  The victims sustained varying 
degrees of injuries. The injured were conveyed to Argungu General Hospital. The Zonal Commanding Officer ACM
Kayode OLAGUNJU  commended the efforts of his men and praised their
integrity. He called on all officers and men in the Zone to  continue to
do their best and ensure prompt rescue of road crash victims. He directed the
operatives to always carefully document monies and other items recovered from
scenes of crashes and these should be promptly handed over to the victims or
relations of dead ones without tampering with any of the items. He warned that
the monitoring teams will always be on the road to fish out any staff that
engages in extortion or compromise in the discharge of their duties. The Zonal Commander further
enjoined motorists to be more patiient while on the road and obey traffic rules
and regulations to avoid sustaining injuries or loss of lives and property on
the road. He wished all road users on the road safe journey and cautioned that
they should be more careful especially when it is raining or has just rained as
the visibility could be impeded while the road surface may be slippery. They
are advised to park and wait if the intensity of the rain is high affecting
their control of the vehicles.  They should be mindful of 
dangerous  potholes that could be covered by pool of water. He advised all
vehicle operators to ensure that their vehicles are road Worthy.