I wrote an article two
days ago about the unfolding situation in Imo state especially as it relates to
the allegations of corruption around the former governor Mr. Rochas Okorocha.
It was quite short and did not capture the events in any details. As a
columnist, I try to raise important issues for policy attention and move on to
another topic. I had already started my research on my next topic when I
received a lengthy rejoinder apparently written on behalf of the former
governor against me and renowned journalist Ray Ekpu by one Onwuasoanya  Jones. I gathered that this individual is a
known apologist of Mr. Okorocha and a former spokesperson of the campaign
organisation of his son-in-law. My initial instinct was to
ignore the diatribe and continue my work. Afterall, the author was initially
courteous to both of us although in a mischievous way.  From his tone, it was obvious that he was
hastily procured, and the response offered him an opportunity to polish his
profile by taking on those who he acknowledged as pen veterans.  While I cannot respond on behalf of a doyen
of journalism like Uncle Ray, I felt strongly that such misinformation targeted
at misleading the public should not be allowed a long shelf life. I also could
not endure allowing a hack writer to denigrate the personality of someone that
I have great admiration for. In many ways I have
sympathy with Mr. Jones. I learnt that he has been in the trade of caustic mudsling
for political paymasters for a while.  I
do not wish to come before him and his meal ticket. I noticed that even with
his obvious experience in trading with falsehood, it was clear that he was
struggling to find things to say and, in the process, got himself into many
errors. I can only imagine the unenviable difficulty in cooking up lies against
reputable people in less than forty-eight hours just to defend the
indefensible. Let me assist the author by clarifying that I am an indigene of
Imo State and grew up in Owerri. I do not need help to move around.  I have already gathered comprehensive
information about the scandalous reign of Okorocha and only decided to share
enough to trigger public debate. I will open the pandora box when the time
comes. If you speak to people in
the state, you will immediately realize that the former governor has already
been sentenced to life imprisonment in the court of public opinion. From taxi
drivers to market women and youth groups are continuously raining curses at him
because of the deceit that characterised his era as governor. However, for
accusing me of lack of knowledge, the author has caused me to dig the issues deeper
and raise the issues methodically with relevant groups both locally and
internationally. As a citizen and
stakeholder, I have followed the activities every government in the state from Udenwa
to Ohakim then Okorocha and now Ihedioha. I am a victim of bad governance that was
inflicted on the state by Okorocha and his family.  I have not visited Government house since Rt.
Hon. Emeka Ihedioha was elected. I must not get paid by anyone before I raise
my voice against what I perceive as wrong. I have raised these issues partly to
guide the incumbent against potential land mines and banana peels.  As for my personality, a simple search on my
name will give the author some insight about me and make him understand the
futility of his smear campaign.  It is my
view that governor Ihedioha should hit the ground running and quickly establish
a framework to manage whatever the government recovers from Okorocha
transparently for the benefit of the people. My comments about the
former governor are not out of malice or anything personal as falsely alleged by
Mr. Jones Onwuasoanya. I have nothing against him. For someone who publicly
acknowledged that he is mad, what is there again to add. It takes such a person
to display the level of arbitrariness that happened under Rochas. Imagine
creating four universities only three weeks to the end of his tenure. Imagine
the recklessness of donating public properties to himself at will.  His lunacy only reminds me of an Igbo proverb
that says that a village is not complete without mad persons, but they must not
come from one’s own kindred. If this self-acclaimed philanthropist was never my
governor, I will not bother about him. I must admit that he has an entertaining
nuisance value. I probably would have nominated him for a Nollywood career
where I think he would have made a fortune.  For now, I have only committed to join every
effort to make him return every kobo that he stole from the public treasury in
our state. I am aware that Rochas
Okorocha claimed that he spent almost 30 billion naira to construct 27
specialist hospitals in all the local government area in the state. Mr. Jones
should encourage him to tell us how many of them are complete and functional.
He claimed to have spent 750 million naira for each one. Anyone who is
interested should go around the state and check the quality of work that will
gulp such an amount. None of the hospitals is functioning now. They were allegedly
fully paid for but never completed. The one in my locality was abandoned long
ago at the level of block work estimated at about 50 million naira. It has been
taken over by grasses and rodents. I am also interested in the list of
companies who got the contracts and those behind them. What about the so called
concessioning of some health facilities that he carried out? Why was there no
transparent bidding process? Who are those behind the Israeli company and the
Kaduna one whose directors are yet to be recognised in the medical profession? Another big scam is the
school he purportedly built in the 305 wards in the state. Stakeholders are
interested in the amount of money spent per school compared to the quality of
structure constructed. Petitions are already flying around describing how efforts
were made to surreptitiously withdraw 500 million naira from the coffers of State
Universal Education Board.  It is
relatively well known how Roche company was allegedly used in fleecing the SUBEB
through several fictitious and inflated contract awards. On the 48 billion
naira allegedly left in cash by Okorocha, I leave that to those who are more familiar
with the matter to respond. However, have been reliably informed that it is a
lie as the state government had challenged the former governor to provide
evidence of his claims. I am also aware that about 7 billion was snatched from
him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), while he was in the
process of siphoning it away during the elections. We have also been informed
that part of the funds was already earmarked the World Bank Assisted rural
access mobility project (RAMP), payment salaries and renovation of schools. On
the other hand, it was reported that the former administration left liabilities
totalling more than two billion naira. Beyond seizing a few
properties from Mr. Rochas Okorocha and his family, the Ihedioha administration
should establish a panel to comprehensively investigation and audit of the
former administration in the state. I can bet that the extent of decay that will
be revealed will send shock waves across the state.  Rochas Okorocha has brought home some ant
infested faggots, like revered Chinua Achebe once said, he should get ready to
host lizards to a cocktail party. He can only use the likes of Jones to play the
ostrich for the time being to mislead the unsuspecting and gullible ones. I am
sure he will soon face justice. Uche Igwe is a political economy analyst. He can be reached
on ucheigwe@gmail.com #TrackNigeria - The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it will appeal the judgment directing it to issue a Certificate of Return to former Governor of Imo, Rochas Okorocha. Okorocha received his certificate of return as winner of Imo West Senatorial District election held Feb. 23. INEC made the disclosure… June 11, 2019 In "Featured" In the first and second republics, Nigeria was blessed with men and women who brought excitement and colour to politics as result a of their intellectual content and soap box oratory. Such men like late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe readily comes to mind as great zik grip of the English language… May 16, 2015 In "Columns" Former Governor of Edo, Adams Oshiomhole, on Wednesday announced that he would declare his bid for the national chairmanship of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja on Thursday. He told newsmen in Benin that President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker, Mr Yakubu Dogara, would… May 9, 2018 In "Politics"