By Ayuba Ahmad He was young, 44 years, when he stormed the centre stage of the nation’s political landscape as the 7th Nigerian Head of State. His was a bloodless but, a daring palace coup. He was dashing, dazzling and before his exit, a phenomenal personage. Later
to be the first Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, came on
the nation’s saddle of political leadership as the fifth military leader.
Before him were, General Aguiyi Ironsi, January 1966 to July 1966; General
Yakubu Gowon, 1966 to 1975; General Murtala Ramat Muhammed, July, 1975 to
February, 1976; General Olusegun Obasanjo, 1976 to 1979 and, Major General
Muhammad Buhari, December 1983 to August, 1985. In
all, in the line of the nation’s leaders, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida has, for
treasons positive or, negative, remained the most fabled and most talked about.
For the twenty three odd years since his exit, his name, his person or, his
plethora of political, his policy decisions and infrastructure landmarks,
have been recurring decimals, refrains and reference points. Two decades after,
no former, in fact, even sitting leader, is as much the subject of discourse,
in street and enlightened circles. While some heap all the woes plaguing the
country on the policies, actions or inactions of IBB, there are multitudes on
the other hand, who defer to him as iconic, revere and idolize him. Such is the
enigma. IBB’s
place in the annals of the nation is not only etched in his eventful eight years
as President. It is rather, a lifelong story of patriotism or, voluntary and
conscientious commitment in service to his fatherland. Or else, what would have
propelled him to opt for the military, that profession that only men and women
of valour and unalloyed love for country, choose to dedicate their lives? In
the course of duty as a young officer, he went to battles in the epochal war to
keep the nation united indivisible whole. He missed death by whiskers.
Till date, as a lingering evidence however, he lives with a troubling bullet
buried in his bone. Beginning
from the calamitous 15th January, 1966 coup, the military has a
legacy of having ruled the country for a major part of her history since
independence. He was, understandably, not part of that botched action. But, as
he has variously admitted, he was actively involved in the three subsequent,
successful and, phenomenal coup d’être: July, 1966, July 1975 and, that of
August, 1985, which brought him to power. Thus, to the extent that military regimes
are an indelible chapter in the nation’s history that cannot be wished
away, to that extent is the place of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida in our
collective experience as a people. For
sure, IBB is today, the poster boy in national political discourse essentially
because of his tenure as the nation’s leader. Volumes have been written as many
more will be written on the IBB era. For space and purpose of this subject,
let’s look at highlights of issues most prevalent on the IBB phenomenon. Beginning
with the radiant sunny side of the divide, a great number of citizens still
cherish the unprecedented colour, glamour and grandeur that characterized
his administration. In terms of textures of people in the cabinet for example,
he brought into government, a galaxy of eggheads, specialists and
professionals, unarguably, more than any other leader before and after him.
Reference the likes of Professor Olukoye Ransome Kuti whose genius and
single-minded dedication turned around healthcare delivery system still talked
about till date. Among
other notable Nigerians that served in the IBB’s administration were also,
cerebral and celebrated technocrats such as, Professor Tam David West,
Professor Jubril Aminu and Dr. Rilwanu Lukman, whose cumulative efforts took
the oil industry to glorious height. Chief Olu Falae, Alhaji Abubakar Alhaji,
Olu Onagoruwa, Dr. Kalu Nduka Kalu and many more, were similarly on board what
can be called IBB’s truly Pan Nigerian team at various points during his
rule. Even
the most acerbic critics of IBB cannot but garland him for his footprints on
the infrastructure landscape. These include  the movement of the nation’s
capital from  Lagos to Abuja; the Lagos 3rd Mainland bridge, the
Abuja-Kano Express highway and, the gigantic Kaduna  National Eye Centre
among a plethora of other enduring national monuments and edifices. That’s
beside the many agencies and institutions he birthed and which are very much
still surviving and relevant. IBB’s legacy institutions and agencies is a long,
almost endless list that in sum include: The Nigerian Maritime Administration
and Safety Agency, NIMASA, National Food Drug Administration and Control,
NAFDAC, Federal Road Safety Corps, FRSC. The
Nigerian women folk will for a long time hence remember another gift or revelation
of the IBB in the woman, late Hajiya Maryam Babangida, of blessed memory, his
wife and First Lady. An elegant beautiful woman of grace endowed with a robust
incisive intelligence and innovation, Maryam Babangida gave an unprecedented
recognition and relevance to the meaning and relevance of a First Lady. Wives
of the nation’s leaders that came after her have been following her footprints
in terms of using their positions to impact on the lives of women, children and
the less priviledged. Maryam’s BETTER LIFE for rural women was a landmark whose
ripples have continued till date. On
the other hand, to his traducers, General Babangida is anything but a saint.
They call him,”Maradona” denoting one that gets his goals by foul
means. He is to them, an embodiment of evil that gave birth to every plague of
the nation. While there is a national consensus that majority of the nation’s elite
class is drenched in the cesspool of corruption, however, without any
one ever bringing forth concrete evidence of proof, some people have
somehow succeeded in putting on IBB the putative toga of, ” the
grandfather of corruption”. It
is said for example, that he made away with the humongous sum of
“12Billion Dollars GULF OIL WINDFALL”! In spite of sundry covert
and overt investigations, officially and unofficially, till date, the
story has remained at best, in the rumour mills, and at worst, an outlandish
cock and bull tale conjured and intended to smear the character of somebody
that must be smeared at all costs. Come to think if it, what was the totality
of the revenue that accrued to the nation’s treasury within the duration
of the Gulf war? Assuming that the country did earn a windfall of that
magnitude, was it possible that the sum, as huge as 12Billion Dollars could have
been hauled, in a jiffy, from the Treasury into an individual’s account? The
nation has since been regaled with tales of the, “ABACHA LOOT” and we
have been seeing concrete evidence of that in the retrievals from bank accounts
in different countries of the world. Just as, palatial properties, breathtaking
bank accounts and exotic jewelries are being unearthed and proved as
incontrovertible evidence of the Diezani Alison Madueke’s acts of sleaze
and malfeasance while she sat atop the country’s oil industry. Even before
it is investigated, not a few agree with President Muhammadu Buhari that,
former President Olusegun Obasanjo may have to explain the where-about of
16 Billion Dollars supposedly expended on power. Because, in the words of
Buhari: “Where is the power?” Therefore, until such palpable similar
material or, circumstantial-proofs are advanced, the many fans of General
Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida will contend that the orchestrated, much bandied
talk of his being “the grandfather of corruption” are a baseless,
vicious, fantastic fairy tales told simply to give a dog a bad name in order to
hang it. Yes,
no matter the love or adoration of him, it cannot be disputed that IBB has yet
to rid himself of the albatross of a number of his political decisions and
actions. He has repeatedly assured that he would come out in time, with his
versions of the logic behind his long, winding political transition programme
that finally ended in a contraption called, Interim National Government and
invariably and sadly the nightmarish era of General Sani Abacha. Also, so far,
not much convincing explanation has come from him on why the June 12 1993
presidential election had to be annulled. History and posterity demand of him,
these and more. Be
that as it may, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida cannot be denied the honour and
glory of an outstanding leader who has left indelible footprints in the annals
of Nigeria. For certain, his song will be sang by generations beyond our time.
For a multitude of those of us his time, the occasion of his 78th birthday
offers yet another opportunity to roll out the drums in felicitation and
celebration of a phenomenal personage, President, General Ibrahim Badamasi
Babangida, GCFR. Sir, Your Excellency, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, wishing you many more happy
returns. Ayuba Ahmad A Kaduna based Public Analyst