FCT Minister, Malam Mohammed Bello, says any head of secretariat or Agency under the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), who fails to do their job diligently will be kicked out. Bello gave the warning on Monday when he received handing over notes from the FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr Chinyeaka Ohaa, at the FCTA Secretariat in Abuja. The minister said that heads of agencies would be held responsible and accountable for any lapses, warning that; “this time around I will not spend time cajoling people to work.’’ According to him, any head of agency that does his work well will be part of his team, adding that anyone who fails will be “kicked out, simple.’’ He also said that there was going to be a lot of enforcement of rules and regulations of the territory. Bello explained that enforcement would be across board, including FCTA, Area Councils and the Traditional Authority; stressing that “everybody must work.’’ “Whatever you do is well documented, whether positive or negative, it will be known, because you have been saddled with unique responsibilities of running a territory and Abuja as a city. “Most of you are very much aware that during my first tenure, I spent a lot of time working closely with you, trying to encourage you to re-engineer yourself and to appreciate the enormous responsibilities bestowed upon you. “In so doing, I gave all of you a free hand and made sure that you got the right funding. “And I spent a lot of time pursuing various departments, encouraging them to do their work with the support of the Permanent Secretary and so many others.’’ However, the minister complained that he was left to push and fight to ensure that people appreciated their responsibilities to the extent that he was left to do everything. “Including being the mouthpiece, the publicity officer of respective departments, while in each and every agency, there is a Public Relations Unit and we have people saddled with that responsibility. “Some of you who were given this responsibility for three and half years, never wrote one article or granted press interview to showcase the work we did. “Now that God has given me another opportunity, I do not have to do all that I did before, except of course, provide funds. Every department and agency is now clearly aware of its roles and responsibilities.’’ Ohaa, on his part, said departments and agencies of the FCTA had remained alive to their duties over the last three months; and had given him maximum cooperation and support required for the administration to function effectively. He therefore, pledged full support, cooperation and loyalty to the minister to ensure that he achieved the mandate of taking FCT to the next level. “The morale of workers is high, boosted further by your re-appointment, we are ready to work with you in our quest of building a territory of our dreams.’’ (NAN)