#TrackNigeria — Supreme Court on Tuesday struck out an interlocutory appeal
filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate Atiku Abubakar in
the last presidential election after the appeal was withdrawn by Atiku’s
counsel. Justice Musa Muhammad in the lead judgment, held that the case was statute
barred and therefore dismissed. “This appeal is hereby dismissed haven been withdrawn by the counsel to the
appellant and without any objection from the respondents. NAN reports that Eyitayo Jegede, SAN, who represented the appellants (Atiku) told the apex court that the appeal is statute barred, the time for (it) having expired. NAN reports that the applicants are challenging the alleged failure of the
electoral body to allow them access to the acclaimed central server used for
the Feb.23 general election. The petitioners also approached the apex court to challenge the proceeding
of June 11 at the tribunal where they claimed APC ambushed them by secretly
withdrawing a motion and replacing same with another not responded to. NAN reports that Justice Garba Mohammed, Chairman of the tribunal had in a
unanimous decision on July 3, dismissed a prayer by the applicants to re-open
arguments on the APC application that sought dismissal of the petition. Garba held that the petitioners failed to adduce cogent reasons why such
request should be granted, having failed to file a counter affidavit against
issues raised earlier. The tribunal had on June 11 ruled that the petitioners failed to file
counter affidavit against APC’s motion seeking dismissal of the petition on
accounts of unsubstantiated allegations of non-compliance and malpractices. The tribunal had held that its record showed that the petitioners were duly
served with APC’s motion on May 16 which gave them seven days to file their
counter-affidavit. The APC had urged the tribunal to strike out allegations of widespread
malpractices made on the conduct of the presidential elections in 10 states
from the petition. The party alleged grave errors, adding that the petition was shrouded in
unsubstantiated issues in the 10 states. The party also claimed that Atiku merely made vague allegations of electoral
malpractices in the 10 states, adding that vague allegations were unknown to
law. The States were Borno; Yobe; Jigawa; Kebbi; Kaduna; Kano; Gombe; Niger;
Katsina; Bauchi states. APC, had also in the motion invited the tribunal to strike out allegations
of act of violence leveled against Vice President, Chief of Army Staff,
Nigerian Army, Nigerian Police and several other individuals who were not
listed as parties in the petition. (NAN)