By
Danlami Nmodu President
Muhammadu Buhari has dropped  the
equivalent of  a bombshell as he  directed his ministers to make submissions for
his attention or requests for meetings through his Chief of Staff. This  order was dropped at the close of the two-day retreat for Ministers- designate at the State House,Abuja. Tuesday. All the  cabinet members to be sworn in Wednesday  were present at the event. Also seated in the hall were top government officials like the Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam  Abba Kyari  and  policy experts among other guests. Buhari declared: “In
terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all submissions for my attention or
meeting requests be channeled through the Chief of Staff, while all Federal Executive
Council matters be coordinated through the Secretary to the Government of the
Federation.” Read excerpts of
the president’s closing remarks at the Presidential retreat on Tuesday: After two days, we have come to the end of a successful
retreat. However, you will agree that our work is just beginning. These last two days have been very instructive for me
personally, because I have had the opportunity to know many of you new
Ministers-Designate better. I was also pleased to see that you have all equally
enjoyed debating and deliberating on the various challenges before us over the
next 4 years. Ladies & Gentlemen, majority of our people are poor
and are anxiously hoping for a better life. A Nigeria in which they do not have
to worry about what they will eat, where they will live or if they can afford
to pay for their children’s education or healthcare. Our responsibility as leaders of this great country is to
meet these basic needs for our people. As I mentioned yesterday, this
Administration inherited many challenges from our predecessors to mention a
few: ·                   
A country in which 18 local
governments in the Northeast were under the control of Boko Haram; ·                   
Decayed infrastructure in which our
rail lines and roads had severely deteriorated; ·                   
A rent seeking economy that depended
largely on oil revenues and imports; ·                   
Significant unpaid pensions, subsidy
debts, legacy contractor debts. I can go on and on. In our first term, we laid the foundation to rebuild our
country. We recaptured those 18 Local Governments previously held by Boko
Haram, whose activities are now limited to sporadic attacks against soft
targets. Our investments in road and rail infrastructure are without precedent,
and many of you can attest to this. We also focused on diversifying the economy
from oil towards agriculture and industrialization. Despite reduced revenues
from oil and gas compared to past governments, we have broadly addressed many
of the legacy debts they left behind. Whilst we have obvious successes to celebrate, the
challenges ahead are significant as you would have observed in detail over
these two days. Nevertheless, from the quality of the deliberations, it is
clear that solutions to our problems are well researched and have been well
articulated. We have discussed
solutions relating to addressing Insecurity; Macroeconomic Stability;
Agriculture and Food Security; Energy Security for Petroleum products and
Electricity; Transportation and Critical Infrastructure; Industrialization and
SME Development; Human Capital Development; Social Inclusion; Anti-Corruption;
Housing Financing and Consumer Credit. Public service is not easy work, and at times it can be
thankless. I am therefore charging you all to see this opportunity to serve as
an honour, to give your best to deliver on this mandate, for a more prosperous
Nigeria, not for some, but for all Nigerians. You will find that working collaboratively and
purposefully will enable us to achieve quicker results, recognizing that four
years is not a very long time. For the new Ministers, make sure you engage and benefit
from the experience of the older Ministers and former Governors in the cabinet. In terms of coordination, kindly ensure that all
submissions for my attention or meeting requests be channeled through the Chief
of Staff, while all Federal Executive Council matters be coordinated through
the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. I would like to thank the Office of the SGF for
coordinating this successful Presidential Retreat. I would also like to thank
the National Assembly leadership, the Party Chairman, Chairman of the Governors
Forum, and resource firms, for the active engagements and contributions. Once again, the challenges that lie ahead of us as a country are significant. But I have no doubt in your individual capacities and our collective patriotic commitment to deliver a better Nigeria for us, our children and a brighter future for all.  -#TrackNigeria