Nigeria’s ethno-geographic diversity is
often cited as a major stumbling block towards unity and oneness of purpose. It
is generally believed that a heterogeneous country like Nigeria is more
unlikely to evolve a national consensus over sectional interest than a
homogenous country. Taking into cognisance the fact that, unity of purpose
among constituents of a nation state is a condition precedent for political
stability, economic growth and development, have further buttressed the
argument that heterogeneity is more synonymous with failing and failed nation
states like Nigeria, Sudan and Democratic Republic of Congo, while homogeneity
is commonly associated with succeeding and successful nation states like China,
India and the Scandinavia. The heterogeneous nature of Nigeria arising from the
amalgamation of over native Kingdoms, ethnic and cultural groups into one
geographic entity has often been blamed for its failure to develop to its full
potentials. However, a closer analysis of phenotype and
morphology of the constituent peoples of Nigeria, side by side their history,
geography, sociology and anthropology [all of which are indices of measuring
the extent of diversity] will reveal a nation that actually qualifies as
homogenous contrary to the widely held notion of being heterogeneous.
Fundamental to the question of diversity is physical appearance and recurring
features of a sample population. Like China [Mongoloid], India [Indo-Aryan] and
the Scandinavia [Caucasoid], Nigeria is a mono racial country. Majority of the
indigenous peoples of Nigeria belong to the Negro race. Those who hold strongly
to the belief that Nigeria is a heterogeneous country fail to realize that
diversity is measured on the basis of Race and not ethnicity. That some are
born Black while some others White makes Race a fact of nature while ethnicity
is artificially created by man. The United States, which is a leading centre of
diversity, categorizes its diverse peoples on the basis of Race and not
ethnicity. All American citizens and residents of Negro African descent are
identified as African Americans but not Igbo Americans or Tutsi Americans as
the case may be. Similarly, the aboriginal population of the United States are
not identified separately by their tribes [Incan, Mayan, Apache, and Cherokee
etc.] but collectively as Native Americans, because they are one people on the
basis of Race. On the basis of Race, Nigeria is a fact of nature and not an
artificial creation. On the basis of sociology and anthropology
of the constituent peoples of Nigeria, historical evidence suggests an
intricate web of connection among pre-colonial Nigerians throughout the length
and breadth of our modern geographical reality. It is a fallacy that Nigeria is
made up of multiple ethnic groups who had little or nothing in common and were
forcefully merged together for the convenience of British colonial enterprise.
From the four cardinal points of the country, there existed and still exists an
organic interconnection of the various peoples and culture of Nigeria that
reveals so much in commonalities. For example, Igbo speaking communities of
Onitsha, Uguta, Asaba and Agbor are descended from Benin, a kingdom, which
shares a common ancestry in the mythical figure Oduduwa, with the Yoruba of
western Nigeria. Similarly, the north of Nigeria is linked together with the
south through the Igala, an ethnic group from central Nigeria whose roots are
buried deep in the soil of Jukun land in the ancient Kwarafa kingdom [descendants of Bayajida, the founder of the fourteen Hausa and non-Hausa
states] , who shares close cultural and traditional ties with Benin as well as
its legacy Igbo states of Onitsha and Asaba. The Igala migrated southwards and
founded a flourishing kingdom at Idah, from whence they came in close contact
of the migrating party out of the ancient Benin Empire, under the leadership of
Eze Chima. Through, trade, diplomacy and marriage, the Igala integrated
seamlessly with the migrating party out of Benin and together established some of
the indigenous communities that make up Onitsha and Asaba Kingdoms. Out of the
nine villages that make up native Onitsha, two –Ogbodu and Obigboru are of
Igala origin. Long before colonialism, the Aro, a sub-group within the larger
Igbo ethnic group in present day Abia state co-founded the oracle of Arochukwu [Ubinu
Upkabi] with the Ibibio of present day Akwa Ibom state. Famously known as the
long Juju, the Oracle of Arochukwu was a major centre of spiritual pilgrimage
and commerce all over Igbo land. The deep rooted interrelationship that
exists between the various peoples of Nigeria is further illustrated by the similarity
of languages, norms, customs and traditional forms of worship. From the way marriages
are contracted to the conduct of funeral and chieftaincy rites, a common thread
of commonalities with just slight variations in line with individual community’s
peculiarity runs through. Much of Nigeria’s five hundred ethnic groups and
languages are nothing but dialects of the original language spoken by a common
ancestor. Chances are that if a DNA sample is obtained from a Kanuri man in
Borno, it may match perfectly with an individual from Asaba. Herein lays the
folly of sectionalism; a man from Daura might Just be marginalising his cousin
from Onitsha. China is a multi-ethnic nation like
Nigeria. There are hundreds of ethnic groups in China .The difference between
China and Nigeria lays in the failure of Nigerians in 2017 to cast away petty
ethnic differences by looking at the biggest picture of the enormous commonalities
inherent within the native peoples like the Chinese did over two millennia ago.
Under the Han Dynasty [206 BC-AD 220] the various Chinese communities from the
west, east, north and south came together as one people. By recognizing and
accepting their similarities far outweighed their differences as people of one
race, they adopted the Han identity as citizens of China and where bound
together-not by dogmatic ethnic demagogy but by the ideals of Confucianism.
This is the easy and right decision Nigerians must take in order to establish
the fundamental condition precedent for political stability and economic
development-national unity. To achieve sustainable national unity, Nigerians
must evolve a national identity-that is Nigerian and de-emphasize ethnic
sectional identity in the new consciousness of our shared cultural and racial
heritage. Therefore, there is no such thing as a ‘’Yoruba race’’ or ‘’Igbo
nation’’. Both the Yoruba and Igbo as well as other ethnic groupings belong to
one race, negro and one nation, Nigeria. Nigerians must realize that modern Nigeria
is their geographic reality and not a ‘’mere expression’’. Individual survival
of Nigerians depends on the collective survival of the Nigerian state, in a
fast paced globalizing world. Whereas the Chinese, have come together to
explore and exploit the rest of the world for extra sources of material and
natural resources, the various superficial ethnic groupings in Nigeria, urged
on by local ethnic champions are locked horned in a bitter struggle to have
advantageous share of its meagre natural resource endowments. The immediate
consequence of this sectional competition is that Nigeria’s resource base is infinitely
depleted without concerted efforts at replenishment and if the trend continues,
every constituent part of Nigeria will be the loser. Nigerian must come back
together by replacing sectional competition for local resources to global
competition for world resources, which will ensure surplus and banish want.