President Muhammadu Buhari has joined members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in felicitating with frontline politician and philanthropist, Sen. Anthony Adefuye, on his 75th birthday. In a congratulatory message issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Wednesday, Buhari appreciated Adefuye’s deep sense of patriotism, dedication to the party and ideals of democracy. He congratulated family members, friends and political associates of the second and third republic lawmaker whose contributions on the floor had remained “’robust, insightful and most impactful on the nation’s development, especially his interest in ensuring inclusive governance”. The president also saluted Adefuye’s courage and steadfastness in joining the fight for return of democracy during the military era, assuring him that history would be kind in recording his many sacrifices. Buhari noted that Adefuye had scored high in many fronts, especially in investing in the development of people, considering the array of activities lined up to mark the landmark age of 75, saying he truly deserves to be honoured. The president prayed that the
almighty God would strengthen the politician and grant him longer life. (NAN) The Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the Lagos chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has endorsed Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to pick the party’s governorship ticket for the 2019 election in the state. Sen. Anthony Adefuye, a member the council, announced the endorsement to party members on Saturday, at a… September 29, 2018 In "Politics" The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos East Senatorial District on Thursday commenced reconciliatory moves to bring all members together after party primaries, ahead of 2019 General Elections. Party primaries in some areas of the district were not without violence, with supporters of rivals taking on each other. Party leaders… November 9, 2018 In "Featured" The Ambode Mandate Support Group (AMSG) has sent a petition to the National Chairman of the All progressives Congress (APC), Mr Adams Oshiomhole, over the endorsement of his opponent in the forthcoming governorship primary by the party leadership in the state. The Chairman of the group, Mr Akeem Sulaimon, made… September 30, 2018 In "Politics"