Over
the past week, most Nigerians and indeed Edo people were shell-shocked at the rapprochement
that took place between former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole and the
incumbent, Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki. In times past, the duo were political friends
and acquaintances – the one seen more as a political godfather to the other. Godwin
Obaseki was economic adviser to Adams Oshiomhole and formed part of his inner
caucus. Therefore, when it was time for Mr Oshiomhole to make a choice in a
successor between his deputy of eight years, and his economic adviser, he went
for the later. Therefore,
when things fell apart between the duo, most Edo people and particularly
members of the political class pitched their tents on their preferred divide. One
divide argued that the choice of Obaseki as Oshiomhole’s successor ordinarily
should suggest that in the whole of his lifetime, Obaseki should be grateful to
Oshiomhole, and do all he can to pamper and cultivate his benefactor. They hold
that in having any kind of rift with his ‘benefactor’, Oshiomhole’s political
son has been biting the finger that fed him. They say that even though Mr.
Obaseki is deft with the management of men and materials, he alienated the political
elite by refusing to give them money. For
those on the side of Godwin Obaseki, their traducers have no inkling of the
crucial role Obaseki played in the Oshiomhole admin in boosting the Edo
financial base in the face-off between Oshiomhole and the Goodluck Jonathan
administration. They describe their man as one whose palm kernels were not
cracked for him by the benevolence of Mr. Oshiomhole. They say that their man
is his own man, and who is good at the management of men and materials. One
such Obasekite referred this author to an Amsterdam magazine, The Voice. It said of Mr. Obaseki that
for seven years in the administration of Governor Oshiomhole, he was voluntary
Chairman of the Edo state Economic and Strategy Team as well as Chairman of Tax
Review Committee for the Edo state Internal Revenue Service, TARC and the
committee on micro, small and medium enterprises’. Over
the weekend when the duo got together, they embraced and smiled at the cameras.
One of them blamed the press, who most politicians refer to as jourliticians, as responsible for the festering rift.
‘We are brothers’, Oshiomhole said. At
CERLSI, we often wondered if the rift and the support it generated on both
divides ever improved the living conditions of the supporters of both
‘brothers’. How many live in the kinds of mansions that we all saw at the venue
of the rapprochement of the brothers?  Did
the rift put more food on the tables on those vociferously championing this as
against the other divide? If it did then it means that those who benefitted
from the rift between both brothers are carpetbaggers and political
mercenaries. Did power supply normalize or did it help to tar the failed
portions of some of the roads in Edo state? The
supreme lesson for those for and against the rift between both men is this: it
is better to stand up and take the case for the people of Edo state rather than
pitching tents in favour or against politicians. These supporters must realize
that most politicians have two faces, two mouths, four ears and are nocturnal.
Their interest – to better their lot and that of their families, is paramount
and permanent. There are no permanent friends and enemies in the game of
thrones. Instead, there are frenemies. The Alliances politicians forge are
fickle.  As they shake hands with you,
they prepare the other hand to box your ears. CERLSI
encourages both brothers to fight a different kind of fight now: that to
improve on the welfare of the people they represent. Enough of the mundane and
the banal. Etemiku
is deputy executive director, Civil
Empowerment & Rule of Law Support Initiative, CERLSI, Abuja.