The Muslim Students’ Society of
Nigeria (MSSN) has urged newly appointed commissioners in Lagos State to
prioritise education and youths development. The Amir (president) of the MSSN in
Lagos State, Dr Saheed Ashafa, said this in a press statement to congratulate
the newly inaugurated executives and announce its announce conference holding
on Sunday. While felicitating with the cabinet
members, Ashafa warned them against religious bias and discrimination. This is as he accused the Governor
Babajide Sanwo-Olu led Lagos State Government of “being insensitive to
religious diversity in its appointment/redeployment of the permanent
secretaries”. Ashafa said, “Those appointed
must realise that they are in the position to serve and solve problems not to
live large on the masses resources. We pray that their tenure will be full of
positivities and improvements via selfless service in office. “However, we like to reiterate
our zero tolerance for religious bias. Our position remains that people of
other religions should be allowed to practise their faith while our own rights
should not be denied. “As much as we guarantee the
government peaceful engagement, we will not tolerate abuse of rights of our
members, especially females who wear hijab to schools as legally backed by the
ruling of Court of Appeal.” Ashafa advised the new executive
cabinet members to consult their predecessors to avoid crisis in the state. He also urged them “not to
engage in hijabphobia and religious biased acts that could make the students
force the governor to sack them.” He added that “In the past, we
have had ugly engagements with governments. We hope that court orders and the
position of the 1999 constitution of Nigeria on freedom of religion is adhered
to.” The students-based organisation leader said the MSSN Lagos admires Sanwo- Olu’s plans to improving quality of education in the state. He urged the new Commissioner for
Education,  Mrs  Folashade Adefisayo,  to implement technology
driven policy that would add value to the current standard of education in the
state. He advocated fairness and equity in
appointment of heads of education parastatals and use of hijab for their
(Muslim) female pupils. “We remind her (Adefisayo) that
our country is backward educationally and Lagos should be a pacesetters of the
required standard to all others in the country. “We urge the commissioner and
other appointees to also avoid discrimination against Muslim students in public
schools or disobeying Court of Appeal ruling on the use of hijab, which
resulted into a lot of crises during the last administration.”