Media Rights
Agenda (MRA)  on Tuesday condemned the
arrest and continued detention of Mr. Ibrahim Dan Halilu, a journalist and
former Political Editor of the privately-owned Daily Trust newspaper, by
operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) and called for his
immediate and unconditional release from custody. Calling on
the Federal Government to compensate Mr. Halilu for the brazen violation of his
rights, MRA noted that he was arrested in the early hours of Monday, August 5,
2019 at about 2.30am by DSS operatives who raided his home in Kaduna and have
since held him in custody at the DSS office in Kaduna almost continuously,
except for a brief period when he was reported to have been briefly released on
August 6.  MRA contended that the actions of intelligence agency amounted
to a breach of the Constitution and Nigeria’s obligations under international
human rights Law. In a
statement in Lagos, Mr. Edetaen Ojo, MRA’s Executive Director, said: “It is now
over one week since Mr. Halilu was arrested and he continues to be held in
unlawful and unconstitutional detention as no charges have been filed against
him nor has he been arraigned before any court of law as required by Section
35(4) and (5) of the Constitution.  We strongly condemn such arrogant
violation of the Constitution and careless disregard for the rights of a
citizen.” He said MRA
learnt that after his arrest and while in custody, Mr. Halilu was asked to
write a statement on his connection with Omoyele Sowore’s political movement
that called for nationwide protests from August 5, 2019 under the hashtag
“#RevolutionNow”, which he did, making it clear to the DSS that he
had no link with either Sowore himself or with his political movement. According to
Mr. Ojo, Mr. Halilu’s “offence”, for which he is now being punished by an
agency that has constituted itself into a complainant, prosecutor, judge and
jury, appears to have been sharing a social media post from Sowore’s political
movement on his Facebook page in which he essentially criticized the
government’s performance. He said: “the
right to freedom of expression is a protected human right both under our
Constitution and under international human rights law, and the right includes the freedom to impart information and ideas
of all kinds through any media of one’s choice.  It has not been shown
that Mr. Halilu has done anything to warrant any restriction on his exercise of
this right or that merits punishment. If there is any allegation or suspicion
that he has, the proper thing for a government that appreciates the concept of
the rule of law to do is to charge him before a court of law.” Mr. Ojo
argued that the DSS had clearly been unable to charge Mr. Halilu before any
court because it has no evidence linking him with the commission of any offence
prescribed by Law but has chosen to punish him for criticizing the performance
of the government, an act that cannot amount to a crime. Urging the
Federal Government to prevail on the DSS to release Mr. Halilu from unlawful
custody, he said: “We call on the Government and its security agencies to
follow the path of constitutionality. Those who derive their authority from the
Constitution and exercise their powers under it have a profound duty to
strictly and scrupulously comply with its provisions, otherwise they may
unwittingly destroy the basis of their authority and powers when ordinary
citizens become motivated to follow their example and similarly cast aside the
Constitution.”