President Muhammadu Buhari has sympathized and commiserated with internally displaced persons (IDP’s) in eight local governments of Katsina state who were displaced by armed banditry. Buhari, who sympathized with the victims on Wednesday in Batsari Local Government Area of the state, said that the victims deserved sympathy from the government and other well-meaning Nigerians. Buhari was at the camp to sympathise with the victims from Batsari, Safana, Danmusa, Kankara, Jibiya, Sabuwa, Faskari and Dandume local government areas. “I am here to sympathize with the entire people of the state over the unfortunate incidents that have been claiming lives of innocent people,” he said. The president said that the bandits that have been killing people should not claim to be true Muslims. “Islam did not give individuals the right to kill others without following due process in the court of law. “The Federal and states government will do everything possible to eradicate all forms of insecurity in the nation as soldiers and police have been given all the necessary support by the government. “We are doing our best to checkmate the activities of armed bandits and insurgents in the country.” Earlier, Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina said: “We have assembled some of the victims, and their representative comprising their traditional, religious and community leader before the president. “The communities living along the fringes of Rugu Forest across these eight LGA’s had to contend with series of recurring incidents of armed bandits,” he said. In his remarks, the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir, called on the rural people not to hoard information’s about the bandits. Kabir advised the rural people to always pass information about the armed bandits to their traditional rulers or the security agencies for action. Eight local government areas of the state had been experiencing the activities of armed bandits and cattle rustlers for the past two years. (NAN) #TrackNigeria: Wife of the President, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, has urged the National Social Investment Programme (N-SIP) to support poor people in Katsina State including those devastated by banditry. Mrs Buhari who was in Batsari, Katsina State on Saturday to distribute relief materials to victims of banditry, noted that although N500… June 1, 2019 In "News" #TrackNigeria: Wife of Nigeria’s President, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, has challenged security agencies to quickly end banditry and other insecurity challenges in parts of the country. Mrs Buhari who made the call on Saturday in Katsina while distributing relief materials to over 25,000 victims of bandits attacks, said it was necessary… June 1, 2019 In "News" Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Gombe State have declared their support for President Muhammadu Buhari ahead of the 2019 general elections. The declaration was made in separate interviews in Gombe on Saturday after NEMA donated relief materials from the Federal Government to ameliorate poverty in their camps. According to them,… June 23, 2018 In "News"