The West Africa Tourism Organisation (WATO) has gotten Nigeria back on Dragoman’s tour intinerary following a hiatus of over a decade. Dragoman, is the world’s leading overland adventure group tour operator that engages on long haul tours across the world. An overland tour is a form of tourist adventure often lasting for extended lengths of time (months to years) and spanning international boundaries. Years back, Nigeria featured prominently in the itineraries of the group and we’re popular visitors of the Yankari National Parks. But for more than a decade, Dragoman left Nigeria out of its long haul trip to Africa and West Africa as result of the negative image of the country due largely to insecurity and bad governance. Ms Ola Wright, the head of WATO,, revealed that the organisation had been able to get Nigeria back on the good book of Dragoman. Dragoman has decided to include Nigeria on its itinerary for 2020 and already has competed an exploratory trip to Nigeria for 2019. The group journeyed through the country in its west coast expedition that included Ghana, Republic of Benin and Cameroon during its long haul trip across some selected Africa countries. The 134-day package was tagged: Dakar to Cape Town: Driving the Western Trans Africa. Elated by this development, Wright revealed that she wrote to some of WATO’s partners in Nigeria including the Federal Government and the Federation of Tourism Associations (FTAN). While expressing her joy over this feat, she, however, implored both the government and the private sector to ensure that everything possible is done to maintain the relationship. She said, “It is indeed my great pleasure to share this beautiful testimony that I received today from one of our tour operator clients in the United Kingdom. “Dragoman is the world’s leading overland adventure tour operator that has been operating for nearly 40 years now. “We worked with Dragoman last year as they agreed to include Nigeria and the other challenging West African countries in their itineraries again. “We are so pleased that everything went very well, to the point that they have included our beloved country, Nigeria, in their 2020 itinerary. ‘‘This is the kind of great news we always hope and pray for, and indeed, such that keeps us going. “It is our desire that you would use your good office to further develop tourism infrastructure in Nigeria, in order to keep encouraging and attracting tourists to this enchanting nation. ‘‘We at West Africa Tourism Organisation (WATO) will continue, relentlessly, to promote Nigeria as a tourist destination and work with you in ways to further develop tourism in the country.’’ (NAN)