As
part of efforts to reposition the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
(NNPC) as a global company of excellence, Public Affairs Officers of the
Corporation have been trained on the need for them to adopt proactive and
predictive Public Relations Strategies in their management of information
emanating from the nation’s oil and gas industry which is one of the
cornerstone of the national economy. In
his opening remarks at the NNPC Group Public Affairs Division first Quarterly
Interactive Session (GQIS), the Group General Manager, Ndu Ughamadu, described
the petroleum sector as the heartbeat of the economy and implored participants
to be dutiful and with sincerity of purpose address concerns of all
stakeholders. Ughamadu
described the GQIS as a knowledge sharing gathering that would enable Public
Affairs Officers to discharge their duties efficiently in alignment with the
Corporation’s management agenda of Transparency, Accountability and Performance
Excellence (TAPE). He
stated that the session was also geared towards repositioning the image of the
NNPC for the better, urging the participants to be passionate, courageous and
professional in the discharge of their mandates. The
NNPC Spokesman implored participants to efficiently negotiate and manage the
expectations of internal and external stakeholders, emphasizing the need for
them to collaborate and cooperate with one another to boost the reputation of
the NNPC in positive light. Executive
Director, Services, of the Kaduna Refining and Petrochemical Company (KRPC),
Dr. Abdullahi Idris, who was the Guest Speaker at the event, posited that
Public Affairs function was a strategic management function key to the
resolution of crisis emanating from the various publics of the Corporation. Dr.
Idris averred that Public Affairs Officers were solution providers that must at
all times employ proactive and predictive Public Relations strategies and not
reactionary strategy, adding that their ability to dominate their environment
would enable them function effectively in their various Strategic Business
Units. Speaking
on the topic: Managing Information in the
Oil and Gas Industry, Dr. Idris stated that Public Affairs Officers must
imbibe the virtues of being confident, courageous and passionate about their
onerous duties of promoting the image of the Corporation. Participants
were drawn from the various subsidiaries and relevant units of the Corporation. Highpoint
of the interactive session was the presentation of NNPC souvenir to the Guest
Speaker for his incisive and educative presentation.