#TrackNigeria: A Badagry Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State on Wednesday remanded 15 men and one woman over alleged membership of an unlawful society, attempted robbery and unlawful gathering. The defendants are are: Raimi Olanrewaju, 60; Taofeeq Olanrewaju, 26; Abiodun Olanrewaju, 28; Ope Lawal, 19; Eyolade Yusuf, 18; Joseph Uzoma, 20; Idowu Kazeem, 20; Ismaila Atanda, 20, and Sheriff Adekunle, 19. Others are Morufu Sanni, 46; Fuwadi Agbalaya, 19; Afeez Alabi, 20; Jamiu Ajibade,19; Adeolu Thomas, 39; Sodiq Yusuf, 19; and the only woman, Aisat Aponmode, 20. The defendants, whose addresses are not known, are facing a five-count charge of belonging to an unlawful society, attempted robbery, breach of peace, unlawful display of dangerous arms and unlawful gathering. They pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Magistrate, Mr Patrick Adekomaiya, remanded them in prison and adjourned the case until Aug. 27 for mention. Earlier, the Prosecutor, ASP. Patrick Nkem, had told the court that the defendants committed the offences on Aug. 5, at about 10 p.m., at Eteghin community, Badagry, Lagos. Nkem said the defendants belonged to an unlawful society and had in their possession, cutlasses, a dagger, a knife and an iron bar. “The defendants conducted themselves in a manner likely to cause breach of peace by disturbing the peace of one Sabitu Anafiu and other community members. “They were unlawfully displaying dangerous arms in public. They attempted to rob Anofiu and other members of the community. “The defendants also took part in an unlawful gathering and rioting,” he said. According to the prosecutor, the offences contravened Sections 168, 42, 51, 45 and 406 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. (NAN) Two men, Lateef Onikoyi and Ahmed Owoseyi, on Wednesday appeared before an Ikeja Magistrates‘ Court in Lagos for alleged unlawful possession of firearms and belonging to a secret cult. Onikoyi, 28, and Owoseyi, 18, who both reside in the Ikorodu Area of Lagos, are facing charges of conspiracy, unlawful possession… May 22, 2019 In "Crime & Police" An Iyaganku Chief Magistrates’ Court in Ibadan on Tuesday adjourned the murder case involving Oyebisi Ilaka, a PDP aspirant for the  Oyo Central Senatorial District seat. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Jejelola Ogunbona, adjourned the case till Sept. 28 for the report on the arraignment of Ilaka and his bodyguard, Temitayo Alamiyo,… September 18, 2018 In "News" Thirty men suspected to be members of an unlawful society called “Black Axe” were on Wednesday arraigned in a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. The accused are; Ibrahim Taiwo, 19; Ariyo Toheeb, 19; Olasupo Solomon, 19; Adam Oloko, 19; Azeez Lukmon, 20; Agboola Olaoluwa, 19; Taiwo Oyedeji, 42; Imeh Wisdom,… July 11, 2018 In "Crime & Police"