South Africa Minister of Home Affairs, Aaron Motsoaledi, on
Thursday said the country would implement visa waivers for citizens of Ghana,
Cuba, as well as Sao Tome and Principe to promote tourism. Motsoaledi said his department was scheduled to complete
negotiations with these countries by the end of August and that the
implementation would follow soon thereafter. Earlier this year, South Africa announced visa waivers for
citizens of New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. Starting from Thursday, travellers from these four countries
will no longer require visas to visit South Africa for holidays, conferencing
and business. “We took this decision unilaterally but we are engaging
these countries to see how they can relax entry requirements for our citizens. “I am glad to say that Qatar has already waived visa
requirements for South Africans and this will enable our people to attend Qatar
FIFA World Cup 2022 easier,” Motsoaledi said. The minister said that the Department of Home Affairs would
continually be reviewing its operations to contribute to economic growth,
facilitate job creation and secure the borders. “We are constantly reviewing our operations to ensure that
we relax entry requirements without compromising our responsibility towards the
safety and security of our citizens,” Motsoaledi said. Already, South Africa has waived visa requirement for
citizens of 82 of the 193 countries, who are members of the UN, including 18
African countries. The majority of the countries whose citizens can visit South
Africa visa-free are among the major tourist source nations, the minister said. “The department has already sent directives to ports of
entry, airlines and our missions abroad informing them of the removal of visa
requirements for nationals of these countries, who wish to visit our beautiful
country for tourism of business meetings,” Motsoaledi said. (Xinhua/NAN) NIGERIAN immigrants have held a demonstration outside their embassy in Harare to protest "mistreatment" by Zimbabwean law enforcement and the immigration department. The group, numbering about 60, shouted profanities at the Nigerian Ambassador Kunle Adeyanju, who refused to come out and meet them, The Daily News reported. Wednesday’s protest comes… March 16, 2012 In "Africa" Posted by Ivy Mungcal on 08 August 2012 Brazilian President Dilma Rouseff is scheduled to make an official visit to Nigeria later this year. Photo by: Erasmo Salomão / ASCOM/MS / CC BY-NC-SA With Nigeria as its latest destination, Brazil appears keen to continue building ties with Africa. This is… August 9, 2012 In "Africa" Nigeria’s current disappointing ranking on the 2017 Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Development Index (IDI), should serve as a wake-up call on the pressing need to exploit ICT in order to enhance the country’s economic development, Halogen Security’s MD, Mr. Wale Olaoye, has said. Mr. Olaoye made the comments following… December 14, 2017 In "Technology"