#TrackNigeria: ‘The Delivery Boy’, a Boko Haram-inspired film has screened at the Nollywood Travel Film Festival (NTFF) in Berlin. The film was one of the three Nollywood movies selected for special spotlight at the festival. ‘The Delivery Boy’ was written and directed by award-winning filmmaker, Adekunle ‘Nodash’ Adejuyigbe, shot by The Elite Film Team (TEFT) and produced by Something Unusual Studios. The movie is an entertaining take on the Boko Haram insurgency with a plot that explored the back story of terrorists, seeking to provide answers to the reasons behind their actions. On his Instagram page @i_am_nodash, Adejuyigbe revealed that the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Yusuf Maitama Tuggar applauded the message behind the film. He wrote, “I was invited to meet with the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, HE Ambassador Yusuf Maitama Tuggar, in Berlin. “What was meant to be a simple visit resulted in one of the deepest conversations I have had about the impact of films on the state. “The Ambassador must have been impressed because he instantly made a commitment to come to the screening of ‘The Delivery Boy’ at the Nollywood travel film festival. “At the end the screening he took the microphone and publicly labeled the delivery boy “the best Nigerian film he has seen”. “This is special for 3 reasons. First, he is from the north and ‘The Delivery Boy’ has a huge northern influence. “Secondly, it has added motivation to pour our hearts into the new film we are working on. “Thirdly, our interaction has convinced me that there are quite a number of politicians who understand the importance of what we are doing and are willing to support. “So, while working on the many ideas we shared, I will like to remind other Nigerian, and African, filmmakers that it’s important, now more than ever, that we fearlessly tell our stories. “Because, in some ways, molecules of the future of the continent are embedded in every frame we shoot,” he said. ‘The Delivery Boy’ has screened at Jagran International Film Festival and Lake International Pan African Film Festival. It has also screened at the Real Time International Film Festival and won Best Nigerian Film at the 2018 AFRIFF Globe Awards. (NAN)