The
interviews granted by a former governor of Edo State and National Chair of the
All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to select Television
stations, on Friday, September 6, 2019, were historic because they enabled him
respond to sundry questions and to counter the series of complex narratives
woven round the Edo House of Assembly crisis by the other party. Oshiomhole’s
counter-narratives were downright frank, expansive – and he threw down the
gauntlet, which Obaseki has yet to take up. He brought clarity to his actions.
His grouse about Obaseki and his governance style was weighty and certainly,
the weight of evidence is on Oshiomohle’s side. His claims against Obaseki and
the supporting evidence have yet to be rebutted by the governor. Obaseki’s
silence is not golden and his dodgy directive to administration officials not
to respond to Oshiomnhole’s claims doesn’t equate virtue in
silence.  It is clearly indicative of his inability to fault
Oshiomhole’s claims and counter narratives to the earlier narrative spun by him
and his officials that political leaders in the state wanted him to share the
state’s funds to them. That
was the scurrilous narrative marketed within and outside the state. It could
only have taken a perceptive politician and marathoner to hold back for long
before electing to dismantle the self-imposed culture of silence or to shed the
self-restraining garb. The specific challenge to Obaseki by Oshiomhole couldn’t
be simpler:  name the political leaders pressurising you to share the
state’s funds to them. Media professionals had
attempted to insinuate Oshiomhole into the subject of the allegation, but in a
riposte, he had clarified that Obaseki did not refer to a political leader;
therefore, his generic reference to political leaders could not be construed to
refer to him (Oshiomhole) as a leader. Oshiomhole also countered the narrative
that he was controlling the governor, asserting that he nominated only a
commissioner to the cabinet the governor dissolved in the wake of the crisis
over the nocturnal and controversial inauguration of the state legislature. Interestingly, Oshiomhole
clarified that Frank Okiye, purportedly elected Speaker of the House, was not
validly elected to the position.  Pressure continues to mount on Obaseki
to issue a fresh proclamation for the proper inauguration of the State
Assembly.  The governor chose a desperate course, after failing to produce
many of his unpopular aspirants, as candidates in the 2019 national and state
legislative elections. Those who secured the
tickets of the party through direct primary election were the popular aspirants
that served in the administration of Oshiomhole with Obaseki and whom he
related with as Oshiomhole’s boys. Oshiomhole had kept mum for so long. Many
had said his quietude was not in pari-materia with his
existential, essential activism and public space disposition. The expressive
Iyamho-born politician, who deployed the singularity of his oratorical prowess
in driving the electioneering of Obaseki in 2016, bided his time unlike Obaseki
whose reactions had always been impulsively aggravating. Left
to Obaseki, he would circumvent leaders and members of the APC political family
in the scheme of things. That was the philosophy that undergirded his quotidian
disposition and perception of APC’s leaders in the state as being interested
only in having government funds shared to them. The
quixotic demonisation of the APC leaders was Obaseki’s most ludicrous faux pas.
How could the governor, who is the leader of the party in the state, fail so
abysmally to understand the imperative of managing successes and expectations
of members of his political family to consolidate on the structure? 
Before his current predilection, Obaseki’s original plot was to retire a good
number of the old political warhorses and build his own structure of budding
politicians.  And, that was his howler: having inherited them, it behoves
him to harvest their electoral assets and their nuisance values, going
forward. Nothing
could have been simpler than that. Oshiomhole had already cut out Obaseki’s job
for him by harnessing the potentialities of the politics and praxis of
gladiators whom he galvanized behind his governorship candidature in
2016.  But the governor has complicated an otherwise simple relationship
because of self-interest.  In fact, Obaseki had created the impression
that he was not interested in politics but he is now so enamoured of
governorship power, a disposition that is tantamount to the Chichidodo bird in
Ayi Kwei Armah’s “The Beautiful Ones Are Not Yet Born”.  The Chichidodo
bird hates feces, but loves the maggots therein. Obaseki
has been deploying the governorship power in its vast flourish to unsettle the
APC family and raise the political temperature in the state. After his gambit
to supplant the political structure in the APC collapsed, he is pathetically
progressing in egregious blunders. To be sure, Obaseki had his own plans and
calculations cleverly scripted and laid-out for implementation. But what he did
not factor into his plan was the emergence of Oshiomhole as national chair of
the APC.  Had that not happened, Obaseki’s plan was to rout Oshiomhole and
his political structure. Before the 2019 general
election, Obaseki had, at the level of governance, desecrated the philosophy of
continuity on which Oshiomhole premised and rationalised his choice as a
successor.  He had curiously upended projects and programmes that he
inherited from the Oshiomhole administration in which he played a strategic
part as Chair of the Economic and Strategy Team. Two critical legacy projects:
the five-star Central Hospital in Benin and the Edo Storm Water project- were
unconscionably abandoned. Blacklisting
these two projects, among others, gifted opposition parties in the state
grounds to continue to vilify Oshiomhole and disparage his administration. It
was Obaseki’s plot to turn the people against Oshiomhole so that he could create
a new popularity momentum around himself.  Whereas, what he needed to do
was to facilitate the completion of the outstanding 25 percent component of the
hospital project; he never did so.  Secondly, whereas, what he needed to
do to maximize the functionality of the Storm Water Project was to de-silt the
drainages so that flood water can flow through them seamlessly, he never did.
Whereas, that is the essence of continuity in government, Obaseki scorned the
philosophy in furtherance of his blinkered agenda. Oshiomhole
addressed these and other ancillary issues in his media interviews. First he
said there was nothing personal about his disagreement with Obaseki as they
remain friends – Comrade and Goddy – as the duo address each other. But the
issues remain Obaseki’s constitutional infractions, lack of fidelity to the
philosophy of continuity of Oshiomhole administration’s legacy projects and
failure to constitute boards in order to empower party members and leaders
across the 192 wards in the state – about a year to the end of the
administration to validate the APC and the governor’s re-election. These claims are very
weighty and define the contention in the party? The weight and precision of the
claims were such that Obaseki could not logically and reasonably discount them
through the instrumentality of “a further and better affidavit”.  By
heaping the coal of fire on Obaseki’s head, Oshiomhole had perceptibly
redefined the shape, texture, context and content of the complex politicking
and political narratives around the executive-induced APC crisis in Edo. Obaseki’s
decision to ignore Oshiomhole’s claims had largely reinforced the truth in
them; otherwise, the governor could have addressed the claims so that the Edo
people would be able to make their inferences.  But obviously overwhelmed
by the magnitude of Oshiomhole’s claims, Obaseki would appear to have lost the
little gravitas he hitherto had and has now continued to accentuate his
clumsiness through a rash of discourteous acts towards Oshiomhole at public
functions. Some
pictures have been trending on the social media showing how during exchanges of
pleasantries, Obaseki would sit somewhat comfortably in his chair to respond to
Oshiomhole’s greetings. In another of such pictures, where he acted the same
way, his condescension was made more glaring by his Deputy, Philip Shaibu, who
stood up right beside him, to pump hands with Oshiomhole.  Such disrespect
only serves to confirm that all is not well between Comrade and Goddy. This is
the essential weight of the matter. ·Ojeifo contributed this piece via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com