Justice
Nicholas Oweibo of the Federal High Court, sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos on Monday,
September 2, 2019, adjourned ruling to September 10, 2019 on the final
forfeiture of Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke’s jewelry and a customized gold
iPhone, all valued at $40million. The defendant is a former minister of
Petroleum Resources. At
today’s sitting, the prosecution counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo prayed the court for
the final forfeiture of the jewelry and phone, and produced in court, the
search warrant detailing all the items recovered in the defendant’s home. He
noted that “at this stage of the proceeding, what is expected of the respondent
is to present credible evidence as to the source of the property sought to be
forfeited.” He
stated that the respondent has failed to show how she acquired the mind-blowing
jewelry through legitimate incomes. “Ridiculously, they sought to claim that
some of the items were gifts but did not disclose the giver,” Oyedepo said. The
prosecution counsel also argued that the respondent did not declare the items
in contention in her Asset Declaration Form with the Code of Conduct Bureau,
CCB, which he said was an attempt to conceal the items. He
further urged the court not to attach value to the deponent’s counter-affidavit
as the facts deposed to were out of the knowledge of the respondent. “With the
failure of the deponent to show how the jewelry was gotten, I urge you to hold
that the respondent has failed to show cause as to why the properties should
not be forfeited to the federal government,” Oyedepo said. While
responding to Justice Oweibo’s call on the defence team to show cause as to why
the properties should not be finally forfeited to the federal government, the
defence counsel, Nnamdi Awa-Kalu urged the court to dismiss the application and
its contents on the grounds that the prosecution’s arguments were mere speculations. Additionally,
the defence counsel argued that the court lacked jurisdiction on the matter. The
EFCC had on July 5, 2019 secured an interim forfeiture of 2,149 pieces of
jewelry and a customized gold iPhone belonging to Mrs Alison-Madueke.