The Group Managing Director of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has revealed
that significant progress has been made in the ongoing exploration of inland
basins, adding that the target of growing the nation’s reserve to 40billion
barrels by 2023 was realistic and achievable. Mallam Kyari made this submission
when he received the leadership of the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationist
(NAPE) at the NNPC Towers, Abuja on Tuesday. A press release by the Group General
Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Ndu Ughamadu, stated that the
Corporation was revving up exploration activities in all the frontier basins to
achieve the 3 million barrels per day crude oil production target within the
shortest possible time. Mele Kyari stated that his
management’s focus on Transparency and Accountability with Performance
Excellence (TAPE) was geared towards transforming the NNPC into a global
company of distinction, stressing that the Corporation was the window to the
Nigerian oil and gas industry. He said the national oil company
would invest more efforts and resources in the search for hydrocarbons in the
frontier basins and the ultra-deep water basin in the Niger Delta in order to
grow the nation’s reserve base. “We promise that we are going to be
transparent and accountable to all our stakeholders. We will drive this company
to become a company of global excellence through excellent performance. This is
very possible and there are strong indications that this is achievable”, Mele
Kyari asserted. He stated that the Corporation would
galvanize its partners in the direction of attaining national goals and
aspirations for the economic wellbeing of the nation and its citizens. The NNPC helmsman assured that the
Corporation, with the collaboration of other arms of the Federal Government,
would create a favourable fiscal landscape that would encourage inflow of
foreign direct investment into the nation’s oil and gas industry. On the commercial level, he said
NNPC would continue to meet its cash-call obligations to its Joint Venture
partners on a sustainable basis to enable the international oil companies go
back to exploration, maintaining that the move had already made exploration
activities to start blossoming. Mele Kyari called for the support of
NAPE to enable the nation attain the 3 million barrels per day and the
40billion reserve aspiration going forward. Earlier, President of NAPE, Mr.
Ajibola Oyebamiji, congratulated Mallam Kyari on his well-deserved appointment
and assured him of the association’s support in growing the nation’s reserve
base. Mr. Oyebamiji who was accompanied by
the leadership of NAPE said the current management of NNPC’s vision of TAPE was
in tandem with the vision of the association.