I
thought I may not have to write again, after reflecting on his first one
hundred days in office in an earlier piece. But that was before I knew that he
has actually executed the 120 projects across Borno State within that period as
promised during his tour immediately he was sworn inn. And that, he has
attained the golden age of 50. Quite
unlike the proverbial lizard which jumps from the top of an iroko tree
unharmed, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, Governor of Borno State has refused
to praise himself for the feat he has achieved so far. It is even more awesome
that the man clocked 50 recently and only a few people knew about it. But those
who know the height from which he jumped cannot however fail to celebrate him. So
many amongst those who had the privilege of going round with him were initially
skeptical, others may have silently dismissed him, that he may not be able to
meet the target of 120 projects within the first one hundred days of his
assumption of office. I was one of those who were privileged to be on some legs
of his tour at certain times, and given my past experiences, I was a little
uncomfortable with some of his pledgees. I feared that he was being carried
away by the euphoria of the new office. Perhaps,
he was the only one who knew where he was headed and how he was going to get
there. At every stop, he gives instant orders and personally deploy people to
carry out such orders. Looking back at some of the promises he made during his
inaugural tour, I agree with the summation that Professor Umara Babagana Zulum,
Governor of Borno State is indeed an enigma and an optimist. Perhaps
many of us failed to see through the view lenses of his predecessor and mentor,
Senator Kashim Shettima. If we had, we would have known that, Iron indeed
sharpens iron. Having been well tutored and having been in the vanguard of
Borno’s rebuilding agenda, the Professor of Agricultural Engineering is only
working in tandem with the spirit bequeathed to him by Kashim Shettima, to the
effect that he proved bookmakers wrong and silenced the narrative some cynics
want to promote. It
may be needless to recount each of the projects he executed, as that has been
adequately reflected in the advertorials sponsored by senator Kashim Shettima,
but suffice it to state, that in areas where pessimism and despair were
palpable, he has executed a total of 43 projects, in Southern Borno alone.
Perhaps, what is more captivating is the quality of all the projects. With the
privilege of going round some of the projects, I can confirm that they were a
total departure from the shoddy jobs were are used to seeing in Government
projects. One of the site engineers once told me, that, the quality of the job
far surpasses what they were used to doing on similar projects in other places.
From Askira/Uba to Bayo, Biu to Chibok, Damboa to Gwoza, Hawul to Kwaya-Kusar
and Shani, there is no local Government in which one can fault any project
started and delivered. In a
clime where project execution has since taken the back seat in governance,
Professor Babagana Zulums feat in executing 120 projects in only a hundred days
is quite enthralling and shall remain a reference point for other Governors. At
the risk of making comparisons, Borno’s immediate neighbors have a model to
emulate. Hundred days may have come and gone, but that is just a date, the work
must be done. I
quietly took inventory of the 120 projects and quietly took time to verify
their stages of completion. Given the time frame, coupled with scarce resources
available to Government to do certain things, one could be tempted to ask
whether it was magic or miracle, seeing that they were all completed. Beyond
projects execution, the greatest achievement of Professor Babagana Zulum is the
confidence rebuilding initiatives in all displaced people to relocate back to
their homes and the injection of new energy in the Civil Service. His partial
relocation to the state secretariat is a morale booster and a yellow card for
those who hitherto take government work for granted. His adaption of a carrot
and stick approach in reviving the civil service will tend to rejig the service
as the engine room for governance. Having
attained 50 which is the golden age, having earned a Gold in performance, with
yet a Golden opportunity to reposition Borno and bring her back on the path of
prosperity, one cannot help but celebrate Professor Engineer, Babagana Umara
Zulum fnse, mni, Executive Governor of Borno State.