By Abdallah el-Kurebe #TrackNigeria: The Committee on verification and biometric data capture of local government staff in Borno state says as it commences sensitization and physical verification of claims by all local government workers; it has no mandate to retrench local government staff as was being insinuated. The chairman of the Committee, Sen. Kaka Mallam Yale, in a
statement made available to Newsdiaryonline
Thursday said its “terms of reference have been unambiguously spelt out and
its mandate has been clearly defined. We are however disturbed by the negative
perceptions and mischievous misinterpretations of Government intentions in
setting up the committee viz –a- viz its mandate. Our attention has been drawn
particularly to insinuations in certain quarters, that has been mandated to
retrench workers at the Local Government level. “We state without any fear of contradiction that nothing
could be further from the truth in such insinuations, as the terms of reference
of the committee do not directly or remotely suggest retrenchment of any staff,
nay any form of victimization. “Specifically, the committee has been mandated to make
recommendations after its finding to Government, which has the final say on all
issues that may arise in the course of the exercise,” the statement read. It stressed that the administration of governor Babagana Zulum
had enjoyed tremendous goodwill from the citizenry, for its ambitious policies
and programmes. “It is uncharitable for anyone of group, to insinuate that,
an administration which has placed worker’s welfare in the front burner of its
programmes could turn around to retrench the workers. The truth is that, government
plans to reposition the local government system in the state, by correcting
certain anomalies that may have occurred in staff recruitment, remuneration,
placements, training, promotions and even retirements, over the years, such
that Local Governments can achieve their set objectives as the third tier of Government. “The essence of this committee is to assist the Government
in fine tuning the operations of Local Governments in the state, and to bring
transparency in the manner Local Governments manage their resources both human
and material and provide services to the people. Contrary to negative
perceptions being propagated by some selfish interests, the committee does not
have the mandate to retrench or employ, just as it has no intentions to witch
hunt, victimize or unduly punish any worker for whatever reasons.” The Committee sought the cooperation and support of key
stakeholders in the local government system, “especially the various staff
unions and workers of all local government areas as well as the general public
in executing this noble assignment. “Government has the best of intentions towards all workers
at the Local Government level and will not deliberately make policies that will
endanger their livelihood,” it further said.