 By Ibrahim Mohammed, with agency report The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) is set to announce on September 27 a visa scheme to open the KSA to attract international tourist from up to 50 countries, Jeddah based Okaz newspaper reports. Industry analysts are unanimous that the initiative will be a ‘‘game changer’’ in Leisure tourism in a market hitherto dominated by pilgrimage Although not officially confirmed by the KSA government, industry sources told Arab News an event to showcase that country’s tourist attractions would take place this month, ‘‘with a major global advertising campaign launched in the presence of leading international travel and tourism experts.’’ Leisure tourism is a vital part of the kingdom’s Vision 2030 plan to diversify the economy away from oil dependency. Travel experts say tourism and leisure could account for 10 percent of gross domestic product by 2030, adding more than $100 billion a year to the economy. ARAB NEWS, Saudi Arabia’s first English newspaper reports that the upcoming event on September 27, will promote “the sights and sounds” of KSA to a regional and international audience. Progress on other tourism projects — such as a nationwide digital events calendar and plans to expand the successful “Saudi Seasons” concept — will also feature. In the same vein, ‘‘work is already underway on a luxury resort on the Red Sea coast, visitor facilities at the historic AlUla area and an entertainment city at Qiddiya outside Riyadh.’’ The economic effects of new tourist visas will be significant. The World Travel and Tourism Council said leisure and tourism accounted for 9 percent of the Kingdom’s economy in 2018, and forecast it would rise to 10.4 percent by 2029, calculated by direct and indirect economic impact, it stated. The property consultancy Colliers International estimated in a recent report that tourism and travel would make up 9 per cent of the total GDP by 2026. The publication quoted Imad Damrah, managing director of Colliers Saudi Arabia, as saying that foreign tourism visas would have a significant impact. “It will be a game changer for tourism, leisure and entertainment in Saudi Arabia. “It will not just encourage more new people to come, but it will be easier for people who have already decided to come,” he said. Damrah believes Saudi Arabia can hold its own in the global tourism business. “Let’s get some perspective on this. If you come to Saudi Arabia, you can still go to Florida, or Dubai, as well. Every destination has its own attraction.” Besides, GULF NEWS quoted Okaz newspaper that ‘‘the visas will be available for citizens of 51 countries for a fee of 440 riyals ($117) and will have a 90-day duration.’’ Tourists can apply for the visas online or upon arrival, it stated. Saudi Arabia has been loosening social restrictions since Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman embarked on a plan to overhaul the economy to reduce its reliance on oil. Concerts, dance shows and film screenings have attracted thousands of people over the last year. GULF NEWS also reports that ‘‘authorities have also announced plans to restrict certain hospitality jobs for its own citizens by the end of the year.’’