I note with serious
concern the worsening Xenophobic attacks on foreign nationals in South Africa
in which Nigerians have been major victims. Nigeria has had
enough of its citizens being targets of these attacks and will no longer
tolerate hate crimes in any form against its citizens who are doing legitimate
businesses in that country. Xenophobic violence
is most condemnable anywhere; more so in South Africa, a country whose citizens
benefitted from the unwavered support and solidarity of Africans and freedom
lovers across the world in their historic struggle against apartheid. More disturbing,
however, is that these attacks indicate the neglect of educating the younger
generations on the sacrifices that Africans proudly made towards expunging the
scourges of colonialism and apartheid from their continent. The enormous
contributions of Nigeria to this historic struggle is underscored by its
recognition as a frontline state in the prolonged confrontation against the
powerful racist regime that had held generations of Southern Africans in
bondage and subhuman conditions. This recognition is
in spite of the fact that Nigeria does not share geographical borders with the
subregion and was far removed from the direct consequences of apartheid. The liberation of
South Africa was rightly celebrated across the continent and the Black world as
the final emancipation of Africans from colonialism and apartheid. It is therefore, an
unacceptable irony that a section of South Africans would so soon, after now,
choose other Africans in their country as the targets of mindless violent
attacks over frustrations for which the innocent victims have no control. It would be recalled
that I had on July 15, this year, met with the South African High Commissioner,
Bobby Moroe, in Abuja over the same issue. At the meeting, I
had said: “The South African Government must as a matter of urgency do
whatever it takes to protect the lives and property of Nigerians living there,
just as the Nigerian Government remain committed to the safety of South
Africans residing here and their investments. “I believe we have
faced enough, we will no longer take it anymore. The South African parliament
must act fast to put a stop to this menace.” I acknowledge the
efforts the Federal Government is making to register the indignation of
Nigerians on the cruel treatment of their compatriots in South Africa and to
force an end to it. As part of the
efforts on Tuesday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, summoned
the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria. President Muhammadu
Buhari has also dispatched a special envoy to meet with the South African
authorities, in addition to scheduling a presidential visit to South Africa for
discussions with the government of that country on how to end the attacks and
redress the current situation. Every step necessary
must be taken in protecting law-abiding foreigners, including Nigerians, and
their businesses from hate crimes in South Africa. It is noteworthy
that South Africans and their businesses are prospering from the clement
environment that Nigeria offers to all without discrimination. We demand no
less from them. The Senate is
closely observing the situation and urges the Federal Government of Nigeria to
accept nothing but the immediate cessation of hostility to Nigerians living in
South Africa.  Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, President of the Senate, Federal Republic of Nigeria sent this statement from Abuja.Tuesday, 3rd September, 2019