The
nation’s refineries, located in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna, will roar to
live to refine crude oil at optimum capacity come 2022, the Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has assured. NNPC
Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, who disclosed this Saturday
during a facilities tour of the Port-Harcourt Refining and Petrochemical
Company (PHRC), stated that full rehabilitation of the plants would commence
January, 2020. A
release by the corporation’s Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr.
Ndu Ughamadu, said the NNPC helmsman’s visit to the refinery was part of his
strong determination and commitment to ensure that the nation’s refineries
deliver real time value and address the petroleum needs of Nigerians. Mallam
Kyari said making the refineries to operate at optimal capacities was a mandate
that NNPC as a corporation would leave no stone unturned to actualize, saying a
timely delivery of the asset was a priority. “We
will stick to time, we will deliver this project by 2022. We will commence
actual rehabilitation work in January. We will do everything possible between
October and December to close out all necessary conditions for us to deliver on
that project. I believe that with the support that we have from the
shareholders – government of this country, the entire staff of this company and
the contractors, I believe it is doable and we will deliver the project”, the
GMD said. He
tasked the contractors on the need to consider their reputation as most
critical element in business processes and engagements. “It’s
no longer about business now, but a reputational issue. For the original
builders of the refinery, Tecmmont, Eni/NAOC and NNPC, let us be conscious of
the fact that our reputation is at stake as far as this project is concerned.
The NNPC leadership has promised this country that our refineries will work,
therefore, we must work not to disappoint over 200million Nigerian
stakeholders”. The
NNPC boss challenged the PHRC management to ensure that the nation’s indigenous
engineers and other professionals working in the refinery are fully engaged to
participate actively during the rehabilitation exercise and own the
process. According
to the GMD, the involvement of the indigenous workers will build capacity, save
cost and introduce an era of steady and uninterrupted production curve that
will grow the oil and Gas Industry. In
his presentation on the progress and milestones on Phase 1 of the projects, the
Tecmmont Project Manager, Mr. La Mattina Carmelo, informed that the Inspection
aspect of the project has progressed to 91% and Final Report and EPC Proposal
stood at 75%, adding that his company would deliver the first phase of the
rehabilitation within three weeks from now. He
assured that there were no challenges as the project was progressing efficiently,
pledging to offer its best services to ensure a timely delivery. In
the same vein, the project consulting company, Eni/NAOC, represented by the its
project manager, Daniele Tamburini, confirmed that the work done so far by the
NNPC and Tecmmont complied with global standard. Tamburini
said his company was ready to receive the full report of the scoping for final
assessment and support the corporation to deliver the project in record time,
saying that the initiative was a good business for Nigeria. Earlier
in his address, the Managing Director of the PHRC, Mr. Abba Bukar, expressed
appreciation to the GMD for his deep commitment in ensuring that the refinery
works for the benefit of Nigerians.