‘ETHICS AND
PROFESSIONALISM IN THE NIGERIA POLICE FORCE’ BEING A PAPER PRESENTED BY AIG
ADELEYE O. OYEBADE, mni, ASSISTANT INSPECTOR-GENERAL OF POLICE, ZONE XI, OSOGBO
TO PMF SQUADRON COMMANDERS ON COMBAT OPERATION COURSE AT THE POLICE MOBILE
FORCE TRAINING COLLEGE, ILA-ORANGUN ON 19TH SEPTEMBER, 2019 Since creation of man, there has been set of rules guiding
human conducts. This set of rules encompasses dos and don’ts that regulate
human behaviours. In the Holy Scripture, we are told, that God commanded the
man (Adam) saying, ‘You are free to eat from any tree in the garden’ ‘But you
must never eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil because when you
eat from it, you will certainly die’ (Genesis 2:16-17). Similarly, the Holy
Scripture codifies the Ten Commandments for guidance of man. The Biblical allusion is relevant here because as it can be
seen, the origin of ethics can be traced to the creation period as recorded in
the Bible.  The society is populated by human beings who are social
animals. The society is also stratified, comprising different individuals,
professions, associations and organisations. Every of these professions or
associations has its ethics so designed for the guidance of its professionals
or personnel. Thus we talk of ethics of medical profession, of law,
engineering, and of course ethics of the police profession. ETHICS AND PROFESSIONALISM: A CONCEPTUAL EXPLORATION Ethics is a moral standard of behavior; rights or wrongs. It
is, according to the Wikipedia, ‘moral principles that governs a person’s
behaviours or the conducting of an activity’. Ethics is synonymous with moral
code, morality, moral principles, creed, rules of conduct or standard of
behaviours etc. It is ‘the basic concepts and fundamental principles of decent
human conduct’. We can say that ethics is about conscience.  It is about
doing the right or proper thing expected of a member of any profession. Professionalism is the way and manner certain tasks are
carried out officially, as laid down. Professionalism is ‘the competence or
skill expected of a professional’. ETHICS, PROFESSIONALISM AND THE POLICE The Nigeria Police Force, like every profession, has ethics
or code of conduct which regulates its activities. As stated earlier, every profession
or organization has its own codes of conducts and ‘how’ they carry out their
work effectively and successfully. The ethics of the police is hinged on the duties of the
Nigeria Police Force as contained in section 4 of the Police Act and Regulations.
The duties are: i.               
Prevention and
detection of crime, ii.             
Apprehension of
offenders, iii.          
Preservation of
law and order, iv.          
Protection of
life and property, v.             
And the due
enforcement of all laws and regulations with which they are directly charged; vi.          
Performance of
such military duties within or without Nigeria as may be required by them, or
under the authority of this or any Act. Having undergone specific training
required, it is expected that a policeman should act and abide by the ethics of
the police profession. This ethics is tantamount to code of conduct or creed.
What this suggests is that the duties of the Nigeria Police Force should be
performed by police officers who are expected to be ethical and professional in
all ramifications. While preventing and detecting crime,
during investigation and prosecution, a policeman is expected to adhere
strictly to his professional ethics by acting within the confine of the rule of
law. To be professional here is to carry out the arrest in the most diligent
and lawful manner putting into consideration the fundamental human rights of
the suspect in custody. Part of administrative procedures for investigation
requires that necessary investigation activities papers be duly prepared,
signed and that the investigation team should book at the nearest police
station. Professional ethics also requires that a warrant of arrest should be
made available when arresting a suspect who the law says cannot be arrested
without a warrant. Similarly, our professional ethics dictates that before
searching the premises of a suspect, there must be duly signed search warrant
in which it is indicated the period and time it could be executed. Not only
that, it requires that such search warrant must be properly executed. Professional ethics dictates that
prosecution which is an important part of police duties should be carried out
diligently without fear or favour and without prejudice. Investigating police
officers and police prosecutors must work collaboratively to ensure diligent
prosecution of all cases without perverting course of justice. During operations, an area which
concerns operational units like the PMF, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Puff
Adder, IRT and others, professional ethics requires that standard operating
procedures or rules of engagement must be followed. For instance, ethics of the
profession guides the use of firearms. The use of firearms is contained in
Force Order 237 and every police officer using the firearms must be guided by
its provisions. The use of firearms should also be put into consideration when
suppressing riot by PMF personnel. This should include when to use the baton,
when to use smoke, when to give word of proclamation, when to deploy the arms
unit and what to do after every successful or failed operation. It is evident that often times
judging from complaints received from the public, professional ethics are
thrown into the dust bin on the road during stop and search, or vehicle patrol
by policemen who sometimes harass or shamelessly and recklessly extort money
from members of the public. This act is no doubt against discipline and a gross
violation of the professional ethics for which the police is known. In addition to the above,
professional ethics should cascade every aspect of our statutory duty. In
administration it should reflect in the way correspondence are shared or
treated. There are oath of office, oath of allegiance and oath of secrecy provided
to guide office personnel and others. The principle of need to know must always
come to the fore while working in the office. Professional ethics forbids a
policeman whose duty is to handle correspondence to keep, hide or delay
important mail. Professional ethics in the police also forbids a police officer
to unlawfully transmit or disclose the content of classified documents or any
other documents whose content should not be disclosed for some obvious reasons. To ensure that police officers
discharge their duties professionally, mechanism is put in place to punish
erring officers who work contrary to the dictates of the professional ethics.
This is codified as ‘offences against discipline’ contained in the First
Schedule of the Police Regulations. In conclusion, it will serve all
police officers, the Nigeria Police Force, and the public well if we discharge
our duties conscientiously bearing in mind at all times ethics of our
profession. It will be expected of us to key into the vision and mission of the
Nigeria Police Force. This is why the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed
Adamu, NPM, mni in his inaugural address to senior officers at the Force
Headquarters, Abuja said, ‘I demand that you henceforth resolve to abstain
from conducts that will drag the Police into disrepute and put your career in
jeopardy…’ As you undergo this important course,
I charge you as supervisors, to ensure that you are guided by good conducts,
and professional ethics. I also expect you to impress it on your subordinates
the culture of selfless service, discipline and professional ethics required
for quality service delivery so as to win the trust and confidence of the
public. I thank you for inviting me to make
this presentation. And I wish you all good luck in your career. REFERENCES 1.    Police Act and Regulations. 2.    Wikipedia, online dictionary.