#TrackNigeria Some security experts in Lagos have expressed mixed feelings over the proposed initiative by  the South-west governors of Nigeria to have a joint  zonal security network that will be known ad Western Nigeria Sevurity Network (WNSN) to tackle  insecurity in the region. In separate interviews,  some commended the initiative as a welcome development that would check crime rate in the region. However, another one condemned the initiative saying  that each of the governors in the region  should fund its state police command effectively to curb crime rate in their respective states. A retired former Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Mr Fatai Owoseni,  said the proposed security network by the South-west governors was not new. Owoseni, currently the Special Adviser on security  matters to Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State,  said that   other commissioners of police in the zone and himself  used to maintain such collaborations while he was in charge of  Lagos State. Owoseni, however,  said that the governors from  the zone had not concluded plans  on whether they would engage the services of the members of the  Oodua People’s Congress (OPC)  and  the local  hunters in the security architecture. He said the matter was still at the planning stage, stressing that it would nevertheless include  the regular police. The former Lagos Police  Command boss said the planned  security network was a good development that would improve the security of the zone as criminals would  have no hiding  place  in the zone when it becomes operational. “The security network is a good proposal by the governors of the zone  for  the south-west region  as it will help the zone to synergise using the ‘locals’ to work with the police which is part of community policing, “ he said. Another retired CP, Mr Ibe Agharaya,  commended the governors for the proposed security network. He stressed  that adding the local people in the security architecture of any areas in Nigeria was the best decision by the governors, as crime on the highways was high in all zones of the country. Agharaya noted that before now, armed robbers  used do rob passengers in luxury and commercial buses on highways  as such passengers used to carry with them large  sums of money during transit. He said that the  cashless  policy introduced by the Federal Government  had stopped armed robbers from robbing commutting buses during transit. He said that most robbers had in recent times allegedly turned into  kidnappers as they no longer see cash to snatch  from passengers. “They kidnap people nowadays  and force their families to pay  cash as ransom. “When kidnappers, mostly about five-man gang kidnapped people on the expressway and run into the bush, police operatives will always  find it difficult to trace such criminals. “The police team will be able to trace such with the help of the local people  who, definitely, will  know and understand the routes in the areas where the incident must have happened.” Agharaya also said that  crimes  that happened on the highways should not be blamed on police. “The police can only work according to their strength and  the facilities available to them. “As the South-west governors are planning for network on security, they should provide all the necessary logistics for it to be successful. “The hunters that will be employed by the management team  should be encouraged to work well by paying  them with what they will  have earned  if they were on their hunting games and killed animals for sales. “It is  true that it is not everyday that a hunter kills animals. But if a hunter knows he can make money for three animals in the security programme a week, he will put in his best. “They are the ones that  will know where kidnappers’ detention camps are likely to be in the forests within their areas. “Every team formed must be headed by one policeman. The CP should release arms from his office for the personnel of the new security outfit to the police head. They should have equipment to work in the bushes at night, because at night, kidnappers carry out  their nefarious movements. “The CP of each state in the zone  must be in charged of the operations. He must monitor all the teams by himself and not delegate  powers . “The CP must know which of the bushes the teams are going every time time,” he said. Agharaya noted that for the security network to be successful, the governments involved in the projects must fund the police  and  be ready to serve as witnesses to prosecute the suspects when arrested. According to him, if the policeman  that is  involved in the prosecution of a suspected kidnapper is transferred to another state, he should be mobilised to come to court  to testify on the dates the case will come up. “It is wrong to leave the police operative to be using their  private money to travel from one state to  the other to prosecute cases. A witness should be mobilised to testify in court,” he added. Another  retired Commissioner of Police, Mr Frank Odita,  also said that the issue of security was on the front burner of every government now. He said that the proposed network being floated by governments of  South-west  Nigeria was a good development if done within the law. “We need to wait for them to roll out the details of the new security outfit to enable us X-ray the  project, their ‘modus operandi’ and  scope it would cover. “For now we are doing  ‘Sidon look’ and pray,. God bless Nigeria,” he said. Another security expert, Mr Attah Folorunsho, however, disagreed with the proposed security network initiative by the South-west governors, saying that such a  plan would  not  be for the benefit of the people. He said that it would end up being  another  channel to divert public funds. Attah said  that it might mean that some people wanted  to return the people  to the era of native police. “Don’t forget that the native police were set up to silent the  oppositions. It is either they are reverting back to the dark era, or they are indirectly setting up state police of the dream of their godfathers. “This proposal by the Westerners will surely lead to anarchy, chaos and confusion. “We are living witnesses to the bloody clashes between the Pan-Yoruba social cultural group, Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), and other ethnic groups such as the Hausas, the Ijaws and the Ibos in places like Ojo – Alaba, Mushin, Ajegunle, Ketu, Mile 12 of  Lagos State  between 1999 and 2004. “For me,  this project is not only callous, but an aberration. Only a well-equipped police force is the answer to crime and criminality. The proponents are selfish and ego-seeking people. “Why can’t the governors of this states equip their various state outfits properly instead of their inchoate proposal that will eventually be counter productive. “Their plan is a mere hoax. They can’t sustain it in the nearest future when eventually, it becomes functional,” Attah noted. The governors in the six Southwest states  had recieved  an approval in principle from the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) to  inaugurate  a joint regional security outfit codenamed Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN). The governors had risen  from a security summit in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital in July, where they decided to defend their domain. The outfit is billed for launch by next month ( October). (NAN)