Of the 43 ministries whose heads
were sworn in by President Muhammadu Buhari on August 21, 2019 as his new
cabinet, none drew as much attention as the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs,
Disaster Management and Social Development. These were some of the reasons: it
was new, its tasks as shown in its nomenclature, were wide-ranging and current,
and it was going to be headed by a woman. Nigeria has for a decade been
embroiled in a huge humanitarian emergency occasioned by the Boko Haram
insurgency, the fallout of which called for the biggest crisis management
operations since the civil war over fifty years ago. Thousands of people have been
killed and properties worth millions of U.S. dollars have been destroyed. A
refugee crisis of monumental proportions has occurred. The UNHCR estimated that
violent attacks by non-state armed groups in parts of the North-east has
displaced over 240,000 Nigerians, with Borno State being the most affected.
Thousands of Nigerian refugees have spilled across the border and live in camps
and host communities in neighbouring Niger and Cameroon. According to the UN, 7.1 million
people (2.3 million girls, 1.9 million boys, 1.6 million women and 1.3 million
men) in the North-east rely on humanitarian aid this year. They need shelter,
education, health care and food. Also, there has been a rising
increase in natural disasters such as floods and erosion due to climate change
and poor policy, as well as and man-made-disasters like kidnappings, brigandage
and other forms of criminality in the North-west, all of which have led to
deaths, mass displacement, and loss of property. Several refugee camps dot
parts of the north, a phenomenon hitherto heard about in the news from distant
lands. There was need for the authorities
to rise to the occasion. It behoves them to provide security and relief, as
well as rehabilitate the victims. Since October 2015 the Federal Government
announced the North East Marshall Plan (Nemap) to provide “intermediate and
long-term interventions in emergency assistance, economic reconstruction and
development”. Key institutions of government in
this task are the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), the National
Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) and
the security agencies. They work in tandem with international aid agencies and
local non-governmental organisations (NGOs). While a lot of success has been
recorded, there remain several observed gaps in the humanitarian response.
There is inadequacy of resources to cater for victims’ needs, lack of proper
coordination of the work of emergency and disaster response agencies of
government and their synergy with international groups, overlapping of
responsibilities that creates unnecessary inter-agency rivalry and tension,
poor accountability of both expenditure and group responsibility, as well as over-reliance
on the military strategy and campaign. There is also the challenge of what to
do for victims once they are rescued and settled. The issue of lack of proper
coordination makes the government institutions semi-autonomous under the busy
office of the President and ignites unhealthy rivalry in the system. This is of
paramount significance. A recent study by the Crisis Group on the Boko Haram
faction calling itself the Islamic State in West Africa Province (ISWAP),
indicated that to make a headway requires the Buhari Administration to look
beyond the military campaign, step up efforts to fill gaps in its provision of
basic services that militants increasingly exploit to win support, while
avoiding tactics that risk harming civilians. Apparently, President Muhammadu
Buhari had been wishing to do something drastic about the problem. He has always spoken about properly
caring for victims of humanitarian crises. Even in his inaugural speech for his
second term in office last May, he said, “The principal thrust of this new
Administration is to consolidate on the achievements of the last four years,
correct the lapses inevitable in all human endeavours and tackle the new
challenges the country is faced with and chart a bold plan for transforming
Nigeria.” He added: “With leadership and a sense of purpose, we can
lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years.” Little wonder, then, that the
President soon afterwards announced the creation of the Ministry of
Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. This was at
once welcome news to stakeholders in the humanitarian sector – both local and
international – as well as observers. Some other countries with similar or even
less emergencies have created such a ministry, achieving huge successes. They
include Rwanda, Niger and China. To some observers, creating the
ministry was a master stroke which portrayed the government as a humanitarian
one and signaled Buhari’s readiness to deliver empathy or, if you will, give
the impression of running a ‘government with a human face’. Beyond such interpretation, however,
lies the significance of rising to the enormous task of having a proper and
coordinated response to the humanitarian crises and providing relief and
meaning to the life of victims. Also, a ministry such as this will
be long-lasting because even if our conflict situation abates, it will not go
away for a long time to come, while natural disasters and poverty are just what
they are – natural. The ministry will always be there to manage the situation. Furthermore, whilst focusing on the
humanitarian fallout of man-made conflicts and natural disasters, we shouldn’t
miss out on the last component in the new ministry’s name: social
development. Those who conceived of the ministry
must have noted a trajectory beginning from humanitarian response to disaster
management and finally social development. The question has always been asked:
after managing a disaster, what next? While agencies have been responding to
humanitarian crises and managing the recurrent emergencies, with different
levels of success, the social component is often glossed over or neglected. For instance, we know that the task
of returning IDPs to normal life has been on the front burner, but how does
government handle the issues that cloud post-trauma civilian life? Women and
children, some of whom are victims of abuses, including sexual exploitation,
are especially the hardest hit. This point is important in
understanding the work of the new ministry. Nigerians know the mandate of
institutions like the National Emergency Managmement Agency (NEMA) and the
National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons
(NCFRMI). They expect that the new ministry would automatically consist of
these agencies and some others. What they now ask about, however, is the social
development aspect of the nomenclature. There are a number of initiatives on
ground already. The present government has introduced poverty alleviation
programmes such as the school feeding programme and TraderMoni, a loan scheme
created specifically for petty traders and artisans as a part of the Government
Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), being executed by the Bank of
Industry. These two should automatically be some of the functions of the new
ministry. Other social development initiatives
in ministries for women, the youth and workers are expected to be thrown in.
Hence the belief that the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the
Ecological Fund Fund, the Federal Fire Service and the National Social
Investment Programme (NSIP) would also be thrown in. The new ministry is expected to
coordinate and execute the duties of these agencies in order to provide the
social security direly needed by Nigerians. The situation whereby victims of
emergencies (refugees, kidnap or brigandage, etc.) are rehabilitated and left
to go aimlessly without any provision to cushion any aftershocks in their
future life is one of the gaps seen in our humanitarian and disaster management
sector. It is important for the government
to avoid the pitfalls of the past in this area and ensure that everything falls
in place. And it should expedite action on the transfer of these agencies to
the ministry in order to allow it to hit the ground running. No time to waste. On its part, the ministry is
expected to know that it is the one, more than any other, that has direct
contact with and bearing on the life of the common people, especially at the
grassroots level. Hence the need for it to be proactive on three fronts: put
its structures together at the headquarters and nationwide, come up with
programmes, and work to make the desired impact. This requires putting together the
right team and tasking its members to prove themselves. Of course, pioneering is always a
daunting task. As such, the ministry may falter, but with a sense of purpose it
will triumph ultimately. The Federal Government is expected
to provide the needed financial and moral support so that at the end the
ministry would not be seen to be a pipe dream or just another platform for the
elite to share patronage. It is heart-warming that the
President has appointed as minister someone who knows her onions. The appointment
of Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq to superintend the ministry can be appropriately
described as putting a round peg in a round hole. Her antecedents are proof
that she comes fully prepared. Nigerians believe that as the
immediate past Federal Commissioner of the NCFRMI, a position she held since
September, 2016, she cannot fail in her new assignment. She has left a track record of
success at the NCFRMI which in the first place recommended her to the President
for the current appointment. Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq is
expected to mobilise local and international support for the government’s work
in the humanitarian and disaster management sectors. She will coordinate the
above-named agencies to confront the challenges of insurgency, banditry, flood,
fire, and poverty. Her work will now make government’s commitment to these
areas more visible and better coordinated, resulting in the world seeing the
Administration as more genuinely concerned about providing succour directly to
victims of man-made and natural disasters and life challenges. Achieving this feat requires hard
work, creativity, charisma, fairness and transparency. Sadiya Umar Farouq has
done it at her previous station. She can do it at this one. Ibrahim Sheme, a former Editor of
LEADERSHIP, writes from Abuja