The eye is an Organ that allows us to see. The optical components of the eyes focus on light and light is focused primarily by the cornea, that is, the clear front surface of the eye, which acts like a camera. According to Dr Bala Askira, a consultant Ophthalmologist with the University Of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, “Digital world is a stylistic expression to highlight the importance and hegemony of digital systems and technology in the contemporary world”. Technology is a wonderful thing that has developed rapidly to accommodate our everyday activities. It helps us connect to others, makes our lives easier, more convenient among others. In today’s world, a person has to actively try to avoid regular viewing screens of some type of technological devices. Most adults spend more than half of their day with technological device. The problem goes beyond the adult, in class rooms, students own computers and teachers integrate digital devices into their teaching. Even with constant exposure, most people are oblivious of the effect of prolonged technology impact on their eyes.  “Light travels in a straight line , if the light passes through a glass it changes its cost which is called refraction, the cornea’s refractive power bends the light rays in such a way that they pass freely through the pupil,that is the opening in the center of the iris through which light enters the eyes,” Dr Askira said. In a normal eye, the light rays come to a sharp focusing point on the retina. So the eyes do a lot of work to make an object sharp and clear. According to him, “Computer Vision Syndrome (CVS), more popularly known as digital eye strain, is one of the conditions often linked with excessive gadget use. The eye will feel sore, heavy, and tired; this may also be accompanied by headache, nausea, and dry eyes.” He explained that “We have two eyes that work and move together, so when at an object of 6 meters and beyond the eyes will go to a natural position straight to the object and so if the object is 6 meters nearer, the eyes will converge to bring the object to focus. There are 6 muscles in each eye that controls the movement and another 6 muscles that controls the focus on each eye. So these muscles are constantly working, a lot of things going on actively” Dr Askira said. Another aspect is radiation from the screen, light naturally have radiation. Some rays are harmful while some are safe. From all the studies so far, the rays we use in our computers or devices are within the range but that will cause problem. Some people might have an existing problem that when they are supposed to be using glasses to correct their vision and are not, or are not wearing the correct glasses or the glasses do not have proper cutting, or it has scratches, these all contribute to eye problem. He added that adults need a greater amount of light to see clearly because people beyond the age of 35-40 have what is called presbyopia – a gradual age-related loss of the eyes’ ability to focus actively on nearby objects. Glare is another problem that comes with screen staring, it occurs when natural light affects the screen directly, other aspect is dusty or a dirty screen. However, the eye becomes dry and sore if the tears that cover the surface of the eye are dried off. We have a natural reminder of blinking, but if the eye is intensely focused, the blinking rate reduces. So, blinking will help regain the tears that will prevent the eye from becoming sore and dry. “Itchy eye is mostly the cause of reaction from dust on the screen or an allergy, ” he said. Therefore, if you are on a computer for more than an hour, which means the muscles from your eyes, shoulders, and neck including the brain are actively working, and when they get tired, you experience the symptoms of Computer Vision Syndrome (CVS) or eye strain. It is undisputable that technology makes our lives easier, more efficient and most of the time more enjoyable. But given the side effect of excessive gadget use, it is important to take a step away once in a while. Doing simple things such as adjusting the brightness of your device and distances at which you view them can decrease your chance of suffering from CVS. “Use technology wisely”. Baba is a 400 level student of Mass Communication Department, University of Maiduguri