Popular Nigerian celebrities, including Toke
Makinwa, Funke Akindele, Mo Abudu, amongst others, have condemned the incessant
attacks on Nigerians and other Africans in South Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the
recurring attacks on Nigerians are part of wider xenophobic attacks on
foreigners in the rainbow nation. The Federal Government, through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey
Onyeama, has summoned the South African High Commissioner in Nigeria, Bobby
Moroe, over the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. South Africans had on Sunday begun fresh attacks,
looting and burning of businesses and properties belonging to foreigners and
killing some people in the process. The attack, which was second within a week, began on
Sunday morning in Jeppestown area of Johannesburg when a building was set on
fire by angry mobs. Nigerian celebrities took to their social media
platforms to implore the government to seek for a peaceful resolution to the
issue at hand. Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele wrote: “This is so sad. Why? Must violence be the solution
to every problem? I woke up to horrific pictures and videos of our country men
being attacked and killed. This has to stop o!!! “We all are out there hustling to put food on our
tables! Why the killings. I appeal to the Nigerian government to see to the
immediate end of this. All lives matter! #saynotoxenophobia .” Similarly, Mo Abudu, CEO of EbonyLife Tv wrote: “The
xenophobic attacks happening in South Africa right now is complete and
misplaced anger. We owe it to ourselves as Africans to unite. It’s the only way
forward. “God has blessed us with so many natural and human
resources, yet we are unable to unlock this potential. It’s another sad and
frustrating day for me as an African woman. “Our government should find ways to put pressure on
the SA government to do more to protect Nigerians who are investing in their
country. Let us pray for the protection of all Nigerians abroad and a peaceful
resolution to the current troubles,” she wrote. Also, On-air-personality, Toke Makinwa, described
the attacks as a huge blow on Africa as a continent. “We have come so far from the dark ages yet we kill
each other. Just hearing about the xenophobic attacks in South Africa and my
heart is broken . I cannot even begin to watch the gruesome videos, why? Why so
much hate in the world ? “Why do we compete so much it becomes less healthy
and more evil, what exactly is the point to all the killings? I love the people
of South Africa, I know so many hardworking South Africans and you all have
shown me love and so I implore you all to stand up for what is right. “We all cannot continue in silence, if hate lingers
nobody wins. Our doors have been nothing but welcoming to you all …now let’s
come together and fight this evil in our midst . We are all Africans, a win for
us is for us to the world.” NAN reports that Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister,
Geoffrey Onyeama had on Monday condemned the renewed xenophobic attacks on
Nigerians living in South Africa, describing the perpetrators as mindless
criminals. He also pledged that ‘definitive measures’ would be
taken to address the situation because there was need to end the attacks. (NAN)