 #TrackNigeria –President Muhammadu
Buhari’s administration and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)
represent the most viable avenue to realize the collective aspirations of
Urhobo people who constitute more than two million of Nigeria’s population,
Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has said. Addressing the 2019 annual
convention of the Urhobo Progress Union America (UPUA), in Philadelphia,
U.S.A., Senator Omo-Agege emphasized the significance of its theme:
“Accelerating the Socio-Economic Development of Urhoboland through Investments
in Education,” stressing that now is the time for all Urhobos to consolidate
and move forward while a progressive party is in power. The Deputy Senate President, who was
represented by the member representing Ughelli North/South and Udu Federal
Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. (Rev.) Francis Ejiroghene
Waive, recalled that  Urhobos’ alliance with national ruling parties such
as the National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC), the National Party of
Nigeria (NPN), the Social Democratic Party (SDP), People’s Democratic Party
(PDP), and now, the APC, has significantly advanced their collective interests
and brought political influence as well as national projects to Urhobo land. “Guided by the urgent need to change
the course of the ship of the Urhobo nation and raise the political profile of
Urhobo, we knew we had to build new relationships so, we went to work,
caucusing with the APC in the Senate and building new alliances and eventually
joining the party from the Labour Party. “Since then, we made tremendous
progress and today your brother, my very self, is now the fifth highest
political office holder in Nigeria; as Deputy President of the Senate of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria, the power of Urhobo voice in national politics
will be louder, clearer and stronger and so too will be Urhobo influence. “Whilst I am humbled by my June 11,
2019 historic election to this high office of State, I am very proud and
fulfilled that we were able to forge great alliances with which we successfully
engineered this great victory at the apex of our complex national politics to
put the Urhobo nation in its place of preeminence, pride and duty in national
affairs. “Many thanks to President Muhammadu
Buhari who has shown fairness to us; without his support it would have been
impossible for me to win the leadership contest. “Mr. President has also appointed
Olorogun Festus Keyamo, SAN, the Minister of State, Niger Delta Ministry and
Olorogun Bernard Okumagba, the new Managing Director of the Niger-Delta
Development Corporation (NDDC) while many more Urhobo sons and daughters are
expected to be appointed in due course,” he said. Reeling out statistics of the
benefits of the political alliance to the Urhobo nation and the South-South as
a geo-political zone, Omo-Agege said: “Aladja is now linked to the national rail
network after 34 years that the project was abandoned; retirees of Delta Steel
Company are now being paid their entitlements after several years of neglect. “It is my hope that with more
strategic thinking, focus and actions, the Urhobo nation will never make the
costly mistake of shying away from its rightful place in our nation again but
having attained this new level in national politics, how are we going to
consolidate on what we have achieved for the good of our people? “History shows that when we stand
together, there is no obstacle we cannot overcome in our determined effort to
improve the lives of the people so, at this time, Urhobo must unite and show
resolve, if we are to consolidate on the progress we have made.” Commending the UPUA for remaining an
exemplary force for the promotion of Urhobo unity and interests, he emphasized
a continuation of their usual deliberations on how to accelerate socio-economic
development. “We have the resources – oil, gas,
fertile land, hardworking and talented people to make Urhobo a land of
opportunities and center of political power in our state; estimated to be more
than two million people, we constitute more than 50% and about 3% of Delta
State and our national population respectively and we contribute more than 10%
of our country’s oil wealth,” he noted. Emphasizing that “education in every
sense is one of the fundamental factors of development,” the Deputy President
of the Senate noted that in spite of being the first petroleum university in
Africa and the sixth of its kind in the world, the Federal University of
Petroleum Resources (FUPRE), Effurun in Delta state is not being properly
funded, adding that he would personally ensure a change. “FUPRE must not die: I will take up
this challenge and ensure full implementation of the FUPRE law as soon as
possible. “The law mandates the Petroleum
Technology Development Fund (PTDF), Ministry of Petroleum Resources and
Nigerian Content Developmental and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to be part of the
funding of the University by remitting 2% of their annual budget to the
University but these three funding agencies are yet to agree or make any
commitment to fulfill the law,” he stated. Recalling that the first set of
students to ever matriculate at Nigeria’s premier university, the University of
Ibadan included an Urhobo, Victor Erereko Ovie-Whiskey, Senator Omo-Agege noted
that the Urhobo Progressive Union’s pre-independence era educational
attainments that included scholarship awards, founding of reputable schools,
adding that the current generation of Urhobos should invest in education. “Education in every sense is one of
the fundamental factors of development; no country can achieve sustainable
economic development without substantial investment in human capital. “Education enriches people’s
understanding of themselves and world, it improves the quality of their lives
and leads to broad social benefits to individuals and society. “Education raises people’s productivity
and creativity and promotes entrepreneurship and technological advancement: in
addition, it plays a very crucial role in securing economic and social progress
and improving income distribution. “I must remark here that the giant
strides we achieved in education and human capital development was the result
of the desire of the UPU to pull Urhobo people from obscurity,” he stated
adding that private educational initiatives must comply with the policies and
standards of both the Delta State and Federal governments”.