The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on
September 2, 2019, arraigned Babagana Abba Dalori and his Company, Galaxy
Transportation and Construction Services, on fresh 12-count charge bordering on
breach of trust and obtaining by false pretense, totaling Ninety-five Million
Five Hundred and Thirty Thousand Naira (95,530,000.00) before Justice Muawiyah
Baba Idris of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, Nyanya, Abuja.
The defendants allegedly obtained the sum from one Asiya Aliyu Bala, an offense
contrary to Section 311 of the Panel Code Act Cap 532 Laws of the Federation of
Nigeria (Abuja) and punishable under Section 312 of the same Act.
When the case was brought up for hearing prosecution counsel, Maryam Aminu
Ahmed, applied that the charges be read to the accused. 
One of the count reads: “that you Babagana Abba Dalori and Galaxy
Transportation and Construction Services Limited sometime in September, 2017 at
Abuja within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court with intent to defraud,
obtained the sum of Ninety-five Million Five Hundred and Thirty Thousand Naira
(95,530,000.00) from one Asiya Aliyu Bala, under false pretence that the money
would be invested in the business of buying and selling of the of special
trip(s) of excavated sand, which pretence you knew to be false and thereby
committed an offence contrary to Section 1(1) (a) of the Advance Fee Fraud and
Other Fraud Related Offences Act, 2006 and punishable under Section 1(3) of the
same Act”.
Another count reads: “that you Babagana Abba Dalori and Galaxy Transportation
And Construction Services Limited, sometime in October, 2017 at Abuja within
the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, being entrusted with the sum of
Fifteen Million, Nine Hundred and Fifty-Four Thousand Naira (N15,954,000.00),
belonging to Maryam Halilu Ahmed, dishonestly converted it to your own use and
thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 311 of the Panel Code Act Cap
532 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria (Abuja) 1990 and Punishable under Section
312 of the same Act”. 
When the charges were read to the accused, he pleaded “not guilty”, to the
charges.
The prosecuting counsel consequently prayed the court to set a date for
hearing and applied that the accused be remanded in the EFCC custody, arguing
that the accused is still under investigation by the EFCC and might jeopardize
the investigation if remanded elsewhere. Justice Idris remanded  Abba Dalori in EFCC custody and
adjourned the matter to Wednesday September 4, 2019, for the determination of
the formal bail application. 
It would recall that EFCC arrested  Abba Dalori for allegedly collecting
N7billion from 20,700 potential investors. He allegedly lured unsuspecting
investors with Returns on Investment (RoI) as high as 135% and, in some cases,
200%. 
On Thursday, 20 June, 2019, he was remanded in Kuje Prisons, Abuja by Justice
Venchak S. Gaba of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT High Court, in Kwali for
obtaining money by false pretence from one Abubakar Hajara.