The Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation (NNPC) has clarified the redeployment of 12 management staff of its
flagship upstream subsidiary, the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company
(NPDC), saying it was aimed at repositioning the company to meet it production
and reserve targets. Addressing newsmen at the NNPC
Towers on Tuesday, the NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Upstream, Mr. Rowland
Ewubare, said the reorganization became imperative following the urgent need of
the current management to grow the NPDC into a big time Exploration and
Production player in the country. Ewubare stated that for the NPDC to
measure up to its peers, it needed a team of professionals that were
fit-for-purpose and could deliver on project timelines and budgets. He added that the shake-up in the
NPDC was a routine exercise that was still ongoing, stressing that other staff
that were not suitable for the posts they were currently occupying would be
redeployed for national interest. The NNPC Upstream boss said with the
presidential mandate, it was appropriate to have a team of professionals who
understood the urgency of the mission, dismissing any insinuation that trailed
the exercise. “The redeployment that just took place
in NPDC is a signal to all members of staff that it is no longer business as
usual. We are determined, as a management, to meet the four cardinal points of
Transparency, Accountability with Performance Excellence (TAPE). Therefore, the
redeployment has nothing to do with ethnicity, religion, or any sectional
interest. The current NNPC management reflects all the six geo-political
zones,” Ewubare enthused. The COO maintained that NPDC as the
E & P arm of the Corporation was strategic to the achievement of the target
to grow the nation’s reserves and production to 40billion and 3million barrels
per day by 2023, adding that with the President’s clear mandate the management
was prepared to rejig personnel to meet the target. He explained further that upon
assumption of office, an evaluation of personnel was carried out which
indicated incompetence and compromise on the part of some staff which
necessitated the shake-up, adding that they also failed to provide efficient
leadership for some of the assets needed to reposition the company. “I must put on record that the
changes would continue until we get the right optimal managerial talents for
the management of those critical assets,” Ewubare declared.