By
Danlami Nmodu The Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone XI,AIG Adeleye Oyebade, mni on Tuesday received the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, mni in Osogbo. In his remarks during the IGP’s official visit, Adeleye assured the police boss of his zone’s determination to continue to protect  lives and property. He also pledged that the Command would continue to sustain the principles of community policing. Adeleye
said, “I assure the IGP that the successes recorded in form of arrest of
kidnap, armed robbery suspects, ritualists, cultists and recovery of cache of
arms and ammunition, stolen vehicles, motorcycles and other valuable property
of innocent victims will continue unabated even as we shall continue to protect
lives and property of the citizens.” He
added, “The efforts will continue and will be sustained by continuous reliance
on public partnership, intelligence gathering and interagency collaboration
which are component elements or principles of community policing philosophy of
the Nigeria Police Force. Newsdiaryonline
reports that the IGP had earlier attended the meeting of the South West
Security Summit. For
the records: REMARKS
BY AIG ADELEYE O OYEBADE, mni, AT THE OFFICIAL VISIT OF THE INSPECTOR-GENERAL
OF POLICE, MOHAMMED ADAMU, mni, TO OSUN STATE POLICE COMMAND, OSOGBO ON 3RD
SEPTEMBER, 2019 It
is with profound joy that I heartily welcome the Inspector-General of Police,
Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, NPM, mni and his entourage to Osun State Police
Command in particular and Zone XI in general. 2.
The august and epoch-making visit of the IGP to the Zone in spite of his very
busy schedule is an attestation of the paramount importance placed on security
and the overall wellbeing of his officers and men. 3.
The inspiring and very lucid speech of the IGP at the South West Geopolitical
Zone Security Summit of governors and critical stakeholders in the south west
region which held at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan
yesterday is a testimony to his good intention and uncommon willingness to
address frontally, security challenges not only in the south west but also in
other parts of the country. It was indeed a well-thought out and articulate plan
to transform the Nigeria Police Force and make it the pride of Nigerians. 4.
I assure the IGP that we share in his vision and mission as he genuinely makes
unrelenting efforts to bequeath to the nation a people-friendly and
service-oriented national police force that will find a place in the book of
history as one of the best in the world. 5.
I am glad to inform the IGP and his entourage that the zone prides itself as
one of the best zones which parades an array of dedicated officers and men who
are through appreciable commitment have been providing quality service delivery
to the good people of the zone. This can be seen from the various achievements
recorded so far. 6.
I assure the IGP that the successes recorded in form of arrest of kidnap, armed
robbery suspects, ritualists, cultists and recovery of cache of arms and
ammunition, stolen vehicles, motorcycles and other valuable property of
innocent victims will continue unabated even as we shall continue to protect
lives and property of the citizens. 7.
The efforts will continue and will be sustained by continuous reliance on
public partnership, intelligence gathering and interagency collaboration which
are component elements or principles of community policing philosophy of the
Nigeria Police Force. 7.
Once again, I warmly welcome the IGP and his entourage and wish them a
successful tour of the South-West zone. 8.
Thank you and God bless.