KEYNOTE ADDRESS BY IGP MOHAMMED A. ADAMU,
NPM, mni AT THE SOUTH WEST GEOPOLITICAL ZONE
SECURITY SUMMIT, HELD AT THE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE CENTRE, UNIVERSITY OF
IBADAN, IBADAN, YO STATE, ON MONDAY 2ND SEPTEMBER,
2019 Protocols It is with great honour and a deep sense of
professional fulfilment that I join Your Excellencies, respected Royal Fathers,
and other strategic stakeholders from the six States in the South West
geopolitical Zone at this all-important Summit. 2.    This
meeting is being convened within the context of our Community Policing Vision
which emphasizes citizens’ engagement in the process of identifying, dissecting
and prioritizing threats to communal values, partnering to develop strategies
to address the threats, and building trust to undertake actions directed at
mitigating them. This is the second in the series of the geopolitical security
Summits being facilitated by the Nigeria Police. The first was held with the
Executive Governors and strategic stakeholders in the North West geopolitical
Zone on 1st August, 2019 in Katsina. Similar engagement will be held
in the other remaining geopolitical Zones subsequently. 3.    During the
first security summit, issues touching on banditry, kidnapping and sundry
violent crimes were discussed, opinions aggregated, and new anti-crime pathways
jointly evolved. I am delighted to note that the strategies jointly developed
between the strategic community actors and the Police which are currently being
implemented have been effective in addressing the identified security threats
in the geopolitical Zone. 4.    This is
evidenced by the fact that since the meeting, the rate of these crimes has not
only dropped drastically, several bandits have voluntary renounced crime,
submitted their weapons and released several victims that had hitherto been
kidnapped and held in their camps across the Zone. 5.    A more
significant outcome of the initiative is the enhanced trust between the
communities and the Police and a renewed determination to embrace the police as
‘their police’ who are committed to serving them. In consequence, there has
been a remarkable increase in the volume and quality of pieces of criminal
information shared by the citizens across the North West geopolitical Zone with
the local police and these are being optimally utilised to take the anti-crime
war to the door steps of the criminals with resounding success. 6.    Our
experience from the first security Summit stresses two fundamental facts in
relation to policing and community safety. Firstly, it highlights the fact that
we cannot proceed on an anti-crime war against criminal elements that are
united in their determination to threaten our common values with a divided
front. 7.    Hence, we
must as a strategy, strengthen partnership among ourselves as a community on
the one hand, and between the communities and the police on the other hand. The
strength of this partnership and the commitment of all actors within the
process will undoubtedly, influence the extent of success we can record against
the criminals. 8.    Secondly,
it underscores the strategic importance of community policing as the most
potent strategy for internal security governance. As attractive as the concepts
of intelligence-led policing or technology-driven policing could be, the
reality remains that no police agency either in the advanced or developing
climes can succeed in its mandate without the consent, support and trust of the
citizens they are engaged to serve and protect regardless of how well equipped,
trained or motivated they may be. 9.    The point being emphasized here, Your
Excellencies, is that police legitimacy draws from public consent and trust,
and lack of effective partnership between the police and the public can only
sustain ineffective policing and engender insecurity within the community. 

10.  The imperative of partnership between the police and
the public was accentuated by Robert Peel, the pioneer Chief of London
Metropolitan Police in 1829 when he noted that the police and the communities
should at all times maintain a relationship that gives reality to the
historic tradition that the police are the public and the
public are the police; the police are the only members of the
public who are paid to give full-time attention to duties which are incumbent
on every citizen in the intent of the community welfare. 

11.  It is for this reason that I wish to sincerely
appreciate the support of the Executive Governor of Oyo State, Engr. Seyi
Makinde for volunteering to partner with us in hosting this Summit. Looking at
the rich attendance at this meeting, I am convinced that our aim of convening
the Summit can and shall be achieved. 

12.  These include advancing the principles of community
policing in engaging the citizens towards x-raying the dynamics of crime in the
South West geopolitical Zone, drawing on the rich experiences and wisdom of our
traditional rulers and all citizens across the Zone, and galvanizing our
communities to march hand-in-hand with us in reviewing our strategies and
jointly evolving new pathways and actions towards restoring security order
across our communities. 

13.  Generally-speaking, the security situation across
the country has been stabilized. However, there are isolated cases of
kidnapping and armed robbery in the South West, particularly, along
Benin-Ore-Lagos Highway and across Ondo State. 

14.  The reality is that the current concerted operations
of the Police and other security agencies across the country, particularly,
along the Niger-Kogi-FCT-Kaduna-Katsina and Zamfara areas have engendered a
dispersal and re-location of some of the criminals to new localities including
the South West.

15.  In response to this emerging trend, we have been
evaluating and re-evaluating our operational strategies while strengthening our
institutional capacity in relation to the generation of actionable intelligence
and the conduct of special operations directed at proactively responding to
criminal situations across the country. I am delighted to note that ‘Operation Puff
Adder’ which we launched as a strategy to stabilize the security profile in the
country and other strategies that we have emplaced since January 2019 have so
far been a success story. 

16.  In consequence, between January – August 2019, a
total of 552 murder suspects were arrested with 66 such arrests effected in the
South West. Similarly, 2,015  armed robbery suspects were arrested with
363 of the figure arrested in the South West, while 1,154 kidnapping suspects
were also apprehended in various operations. 147 of these were arrested in the
South West. Furthermore, 1,183 suspected cultists have also been arrested with
425 of this figure apprehended in the South Western States. 

17.  In relation to recoveries, 1,356 firearms of various
calibre and descriptions were recovered in various intelligence-led operations
by the Police with 277 of such recoveries made in the South Western part of the
country. Similarly, 21,300 ammunition of various descriptions and calibre were
recovered in various intelligence-led operations with the highest number of 5,
270 ammunition recovered from criminal syndicates in the South West including
about 2,700 ammunition recovered in June, 2019 from a cross-border arms
smuggling syndicate in Oyo State. Furthermore, 1,541 stolen vehicles were
recovered with 482 of such recoveries achieved in the South West while a total
of 837 kidnapping victim were rescued with 106 of such rescues achieved in the
South West. 

18.  The point being highlighted from these statistics is
that the Nigeria Police in recent months have developed capacity and
demonstrated the requisite professional zeal such that today, we can
confidently say that we have the institutional capability not only for
preventive actions, but for responding effectively to any crime situation or
threat with a view to locating and apprehending the criminal elements and
disrupting their criminal enterprises across the country. It is this process
that we call on you as strategic security stakeholders in the South West to
support us in strengthening and advancing in the interest of our communal and
internal security.

19.  Having succeeded in using ‘Operation Puff Adder’ as
an operational vehicle to stabilize the public security space, we are currently
moving to the next phase of our strategic policing plans which is woven around
two key actions. First is the launch of the Community Policing Strategy and the
second is the expansion and strengthening of ‘Operation Puff Adder’ with other
complementary strategies.

20.  Within this perspective and in relation to the South
West Geopolitical Zone, we shall soon relaunch the ‘Safer Highway’ Motorised
Patrol Scheme as well as the ‘Safer City’ Scheme. We have since purchased new
fleet of patrol vans to be deployed across our highways and cities. This will
also involve the deployment of cutting-edge CCTV technology for surveillance
functions across the highways and vulnerable locations in our communities in
the Zone and other parts of the country. 

21.  In addition, a special operation is underway across
the South West geopolitical Zone. The operation will specifically address the
threat of kidnapping and armed robbery on the highways and other locations.
While for operational reasons, I would not offer the details into the
operation, I am in this Summit with the Commissioner of Police who will command
the special operation to complement the efforts of the Police Commissioners in
the States within the Zone. 22.  Furthermore, in order
to give full effect to our Community Policing Vision as a pathway towards
bridging security gaps, we shall soon commence the implementation of the
strategy in the South West and other parts of the country. Hopefully, the
breakdown of the Community Policing deployment plan will cover the recruitment
of a total of forty thousand (40,000) Community Police Officers (CPOs) across
the country. 23.  The CPOs will be
recruited from within the communities where the prospective applicants reside
and an average of fifty (50) CPOs are to be engaged in each of the 774 Local
Government Areas. In addition, one thousand (1,300) CPOs will be drawn from
professional bodies like the academics, Road Transport Unions, Artisans,
Traders Associations, Religious Bodies, Women Unions, and Youth Organisations
among others in order to ensure diverse representation. 24.  In relation to the
South West, the CPOs shall be deployed to complement the Police in law
enforcement functions within their localities by performing low-risk and
non-sensitive policing functions. They will also act as liaisons between the
Police and their communities. This policing architecture will free-up
conventional police personnel that hitherto perform such functions and enhance
our manpower profile in relation to deployment to frontline, operational duties
in the South West and across the country. 26.  When fully
implemented, the Community Policing Strategy will bridge the gap between the
Police and the citizens in a manner that will enhance optimal, cost-effective,
and sustainable law enforcement service delivery by the Police. 25.  It is anticipated that
in the course of this Summit, your inputs, experiences, and opinions shall aid
us to further perfect our operational plans. On our part, I can assure of our
determination to continue to maximally deploy all our resources and unique
capabilities towards mitigating crimes and addressing fear of crime across the
South West. In this regard, however, I wish to appeal that we avoid analyzing
the situation from a pedantic, narrow, and sentimental perspective. 26.  We should, avoid
ethnic profiling and colouration of the situation as crime is not defined by
ethnic background but by individual’s disposition and intents. Hence, we should
appreciate that a crime is a threat to all groups and could be perpetrated by
any individual or group. 27.  The key factor is that
we should as a people, be determined to build a consensus and partner in
condemning any act of criminality and resolving to work with the Police towards
identifying, isolating and bringing the criminal elements within our
communities to deserved justice regardless of their status, background, creed
or gender. Doing otherwise will present a faulty and prejudiced foundation for
us in correctly dissecting the trend and in evolving appropriate mitigating
strategy. 28.  On this note, I thank
Your Excellencies, our revered Traditional Rulers, and other strategic
stakeholders for sacrificing to personally honour our invitation to this
Summit. You are by your attendance making a clear and loud statement today that
you are all determined to present a common front to defeat the criminals who
are our common enemies. I, therefore look forward to a robust and rewarding
engagement, the outcome of which will alter the security narratives in the
South West for good. 29.  I thank you all and
pray for Allah’s continued protection and blessing on you and our beloved
country.