#TrackNigeria: The Africa Network for Environment and Economic Justice, ANEEJ, has commended the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, and the Office of the National Social Investment Programme, NSIO, for the bold steps taken to stamp out sharp practices in the disbursement of the $322.5 million Abacha loot currently being disbursed to Nigerians under the Conditional Cash Transfer Programme, CTT. According to the executive director, Rev David Ugolor said ANEEJ
had noted “with satisfaction every effort EFCC has invested in ensuring that
laid down rules and regulations concerning cash disbursements to qualified
persons are met. “As the organization monitoring the transparent and
accountable utilization of the returned Abacha loot under our flagship project
MANTRA, we take very seriously the important role which the EFCC and the NSIO
have played in recent times to support our modest efforts. We recall a recent
statement by the EFCC, affirming its resolve to pursue and prosecute those bent
on scuttling the disbursements’, the Rev Ugolor said. “We are glad that the Grievance Redress Mechanism put in
place by the Federal Government is currently receiving the acid test of
citizens and it is hoped that as relevant institutions such as the EFCC play
their roles, It is a firm resolve that corruption associated with returned
assets will be stamped out from our country as MANTRA partners nationwide are
positioned to play our oversight roles in the disbursement of returned
assets. This is to also send a strong message to all those seeking to pilfer
returned loot to close shops.” Ugolor said. Worldwide, conditional cash transfers, CCT, are programmes
that provide cash to poor people who meet certain parameters often used to
ascertain poverty. Currently, there are about 30 countries worldwide using the
CCT to reduce poverty, with varying levels of assistance from the World Bank. In the Nigerian case, the distribution of the returned
Abacha loot to the poorest of the poor in Nigeria comes under a tripartite
schedule with the World Bank, the DfID and Civil Society groups as
stakeholders. “A similar key role in ensuring accountable and transparent
distribution of the $322.5 million of the Abacha loot is with the time and
effort that the NSIO office has invested in framing concepts of operations
which highlight ‘impact of the broader areas of the National Social Investment
Programmes –on the livelihoods of poor Nigerians’ ’’ the Rev Ugolor said in his
statement to the media.