The American University of Nigeria on
Monday, September 02, 2019, marked the beginning of the Fall 2019 semester with
the matriculation of new students who took the traditional AUN Community
Pledge. The colorful event which was attended
by parents and relations of the matriculating students coincided with the
University’s uninterrupted 29th semester and the official roll out of its
recently approved six Engineering programs. AUN has enjoyed 14 years of academic
continuity since it admitted the first batch of 124 students in the fall 2005
semester, a feat that excites the University President, Dr. Dawn Dekle. “The number 29 is very significant.
Twenty-nine semesters, even though we’ve had many challenges in North east
Nigeria we have never closed our doors, nothing has ever forced us to close our
doors, and we never will close our doors. Twenty-nine just means we are well
and away to making 50, 75 and a 100. “What a day, a very historic day for
AUN. We have a record number of students, but more importantly, we have
Engineering students for the first time. Now we are going to have female
Engineers; so for AUN, we are very happy today because we are no longer the
best kept secret in Nigeria”. Among the new enrollees who formally
kicked off their careers at AUN were four students from Chibok in the
University’s New Foundation School. Three of them will be studying
Communications & Multimedia Design (CMD); one enrolled to study Natural
& Environmental Sciences (NES). Also among the students who took part
in the Convocation and Pledge Ceremony were Master’s and doctoral students
studying Computer Science, Information Systems and Business Administration. All the new students had enthusiastically
participated in their first Community Service the previous Saturday, rebuilding
dilapidated classroom blocks at the Wuro Chekke Primary School in Yola South. Taking
part in Community Service is a compulsory requirement for graduation at AUN. President Dekle, who formally
accepted the students into the AUN learning community, also guided them through
the Community Pledge before she presented them with their class sashes. “We welcome you with open arms and
with the support you need to make your first year a success. If you commit to
excellence, integrity and service, AUN core values, the unexpected would
happen.” Prior to the presentation of sashes,
President Dekle advised the students to be conscious of their actions. “The plaque on the wall says: Life is
a do-it-yourself project. Your life tomorrow would be the result of your
attitude and the choices that you make today.”