Global
premier mobile phone brand TECNO Mobile is set to unveil its camera smartphone
CAMON 12 series on September 5th. This
was contained in a statement issued on behalf of the company by African Press
Organisation (APO), and made available to Newsdiaryonline. According
to the statement ‘‘CAMON 12 series will be not only Selfie, which is the most
remarkable feature of previous CAMON series, and is embedded with upgraded
camera for any angle photography. ‘‘Globally,
TECNO portfolio consist of three series: ‘SPARK’ is with AI bright camera (great
camera features especially in low light environment) for youth, ‘PHANTOM’ the
brand’s flagship series and ‘CAMON’ the popular camera-centric series with
outstanding selfie camera features in CAMON 11.’’ It
noted that CAMON series is the best voice of TECNO performance. It is designed
for social media enthusiast who lead the trend and enjoy life by taking and
sharing photos. The
leaked CAMON 12 series features proved TECNO’s strategy well and reasons to
believe that we can expect more from CAMON 12 series Besides,
‘‘with several of our sources and spies working round the clock, we are pretty
sure that CAMON 12 series is upgraded with AI Max Triple Camera to enable super
wide angle photography, surpassing CAMON series’ DNA of clear selfie, to let
you capture the beauty around you from a broader perspective. ‘‘Leaked
images showcase TECNO’s pursuing the extreme frame with super full view screen
and obviously higher edge-to-edge ratio than 87.5% of CAMON 11, guess, CAMON 12
series at least with 90% perfect edge-to-edge ratio. Leaked information reveals
that CAMON 12 Air takes the initiative to equip itself with revolutionary
Dot-in Display, the first and unprecedented step to apply the latest technology
trend at a very sweet price level, while the only other Dot-in Display product
is Samsung S10, which is available at much higher price level. With the
remarkable 6.55 inch and 90% screen ratio, as well as the well-kept front flash
for excellent low light photography, the user would have unimaginably expansive
viewing experience. The striking choice brings brand new enjoyment. ‘‘Both
wide angle photography and the Dot-in Display of CAMON 12 Air deliver TECNO’s
commitment to bring best device with latest technology to the consumer to see
the world. And news says that in the near future, TECNO will launch Dot-in
Display product with front camera, to bring any angle nice photography
experience with full view screen. ‘‘All
these leaked features fit TECNO’s recently announced upgraded philosophy. In
early July, TECNO revealed their philosophy of “Expect More” from previous
“Experience More”, by underlining the brand’s commitment to provide masses with
access to advance technology at attractive price-points, allowing them to reach
beyond their current limitations and uncover a world of possibilities. ‘‘TECNO’s
successful business with two long-term product strategies: focusing on local
consumers, and using local innovation to meet local market demand to work hard
at solving the user’s pain points and provide value for consumers proved that
TECNO is always keeping pursuing mutual benefits in both African and emerging
markets. ‘‘The
leaked CAMON 12 series features proved TECNO’s strategy well and reasons to
believe that we can expect more from CAMON 12 series,’’ the statement read.