By Abdallah el-Kurebe #TrackNigeria The Nigerian Army has warned communities in Borno and Yobe States to desist from harboring some of the surviving criminals that are escaping from the onslaught of the military firepower in the region. The warning is contained in a statement issued by the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel Ado Isa on Friday. “Following military’s unrelenting onslaught on the BHT/ISWAP hideouts, along the Lake Chad region and Northern Borno, credible information reaching the Headquarters of Theatre Command OPERATION LAFIYA DOLE (OPLD) indicates that some of the surviving criminals are seeking refuge in the homes of some unscrupulous individuals in some parts of Borno and Yobe States. “These fugitives have been escaping and taking refuge in the residence of some persons in  Maiduguri, Damboa, Gajiram, Monguno, Damasak, Biu, Gwoza Dikwa, Benisheikh, Ngamdu, Bama, Gamboru, Konduga, Gajigana and other smaller towns all in Borno State. “Others, have also ran to Damaturu, Gujba, Buni Yadi, Buni Gari, Gashua, Kanamma, Yususufari, Goniri and Kukareta towns in Yobe State, among others. “While we are making concerted efforts to trace and fish out the fleeing criminals, it is important to inform and warn all those harbouring the fleeing fugitives to report or hand them to the troops of OPERATION LAFIYA DOLE immediately. “Failure to do that would attract severe consequences,” the statement read. The Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole enjoin all Nigerians, especially those residing in aforementioned areas, to report any suspicious and strange  faces in their communities. “The public is please encouraged to report such suspicious persons through our ireport  platform on www.army.mil.ng or our toll free short code 193 (using any network), or any OF the following special phone  numbers dedicated for reporting BHT/ISWAP activities: +2347017222225, +2348077444303, +2348099900131 and +2349060005290. “Please report these criminals before they kill you,” the Army further stated.