The Kano Zonal
 Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has
recovered the sum of Six Hundred and Ninety Thousand, Four Hundred United State
Dollars ($690,400) and Five Hundred and Fifty Million, Six Hundred and
Ninety Two Thousand, Three Hundred and Sixty Two Naira
(550,692,362) between January and August 2019. This was disclosed by the
Acting Chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Mustapha Magu who spoke through the
Head of the Kano Office, Akaninyene Ezima, at a press briefing in Kano today,
September 2, 2019. Ezima disclosed
that the zone was also focusing on cybercrime through intelligence
gathering and collaboration with other agencies across the world. ‘’In
this zone, we are developing a lot of intelligence in order to ensure that we
combat this menace. Of course we are sending a word of warning, the world has
become a global village and these days law enforcement is not limited by
national borders. ‘’So there are a
lot of collaboration between the Commission and other law enforcement agencies
in the world. As a result of such collaborations, several arrests have been
made and we in the Kano Zonal Office, will make sure we deliver on this mandate
and stamp out the scourge of cybercrime. ‘’I want to advise
members of the public that not to disclose their bank details to anybodybecause
we often receive unsolicited phone calls, emails, asking us for our banking
information. There is no bank or financial institution that will call you and
ask for your banking details.’’ He further warned
that these scams are mostly perpetrated at weekends, when the fraudsters know
that it will be difficult for victims to contact their banks. Ezima also cautioned the
public against the prevalence of Ponzi  and other get rich quick schemes
while also calling on Bureau de Change operators not to allow themselves to be
used as conduit pipes for money laundering. He
disclosed  that the Commission’s Kano Office has started an
enlightenment campaign programme on television and radio in Katsina in
collaboration with the Katsina State Government, to educate the people on the
ills of corruption and financial crimes..