The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has
reiterated its commitment towards harnessing Nigeria’s abundant resources for
the benefit of Nigerians. Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed this while speaking at a Gas and
Power Breakfast Briefing on the sidelines of the Gas Technology Exhibition and
Conference (GASTECH) held in Houston, United States, Thursday. “Nigeria is more of a gas nation than oil and for us, gas is the
future. We have therefore committed to providing the necessary support required
to ensure Nigeria takes its rightful place in the international gas market,”
Kyari, who was represented at the conference by the Managing Director of the
Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), Dr. Salihu Jamari, stated. While describing the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) as a
very critical company for Nigeria, Kyari appealed to prospective investors to
consider investing in the organization for the benefit of shareholders and the
entire Nigerians. “There are a lot of opportunities within Nigeria’s LNG
value-chain. I would like to assure you that the NLNG is the best destination
for investment,” he added. He said NNPC was working tirelessly to ensure that Nigeria’s
abundant gas resources are utilized to fulfill government’s power aspirations
by developing the gas infrastructure across the entire gas value chain and
opening up the domestic gas market. According to him, Nigeria’s approach in terms of implementing
the energy mix is participatory, which in the long run, will make energy
available to the citizenry by utilizing the opportunities provided by the
renewable energy solutions. Stressing further, Kyari observed that the NNPC was working very
hard to provide adequate capacity that will meet consumers’ demands even as it
was upgrading its facilities to be able to meet up with demand both locally and
abroad. He said granting the imperative for more transparency and
accountability, the corporation has a deliberate policy to improve and automate
its systems and processes. “We also have a lot of other things to consider, but we are
prioritizing our systems upgrade and we shall not be left behind,” Kyari added. Earlier in his remarks, the Managing Director of the NLNG, Mr.
Tony Attah, shared his company’s story which he said had over the last three
decades helped to make Nigeria better. Attah observed that for the country to stay competitive in terms
of cost in the global LNG market, there was the need for NLNG’s shareholders to
think beyond NLNG Train 7. He said the company is well on track on attaining the Final
Investment Decision (FID) on Train 7, which would see its production rise from
22mtpa to 30mtpa. “In the next month or so, we should be able to conclude on the
FID for Train 7,” Attah assured investors at the Conference.