By
Ibrahim Mohammed The
upcoming 28 edition of World Economic Forum on Africa (WEF Africa) ‘‘will focus
on inclusive growth in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), with a view to
finding ways to achieve sustainable growth in countries with high levels of
inequality, corruption and unemployment,’’ organizers of the event said at a
pre-WEF Africa press conference on Monday, in Johannesburg, South Africa. Speaking
at the conference WEF Africa head Elsie Kanza, according to CREAMER MEDIA
emphasised that 4IR needed to be embedded in humanity. In
this vein, a meeting to be held in Cape Town, South Africa from September 4 to
6, would explore how this could be implemented on the continent. WEF
Africa will convene 1, 100 leaders drawn from government (10 heads of state),
business and civil society organisations. Discussions
on new partnerships to create sustainable employment for Africa’s large and
growing workforce will get top priority at the upcoming event. It
is scheduled to focus on improving the funding and regulatory environment for
start-ups; identifying opportunities for green growth such as the circular
economy; increasing commerce for rapid business growth; and leveraging the new
Africa Continent Free Trade Agreement to drive regional integration. The
28 edition of WEF Africa will also see the launch of several new initiatives
including the Africa e-commerce Agenda, a partnership between governments, the
international trade community and the development community to create three
million jobs by 2025. Newsdiaryonline
recalls that in recent times Africa has taken three significant steps on its
journey to a stronger economic future. On May 30, 2019, the African Continental
Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), became effective followings its launch by the African
Union launch (AU) on March 21, 2018, in Kigali, capital of Rwanda. Nigeria Africa’s largest
economy in July this year signed the AfCFTA after overcoming initial concerns
that membership would harm domestic manufacturers, This
landmark agreement aims to create a single market expected to generate a
combined GDP of more than $3.4 trillion and benefit over 1 billion people. Earlier
in April, the South African government announced the launch of a new Affiliate
Centre of the World Economic Forum’s Centre for the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (C4IR), to act as a focal point for dialogue and co-operation on the
challenges and opportunities presented by advanced technologies, which are
merging our physical, digital and biological worlds. The
World Economic Forum has just launched the Africa Growth Platform, an initiative
aimed at helping startup enterprises grow and compete internationally. With
early-stage entrepreneurial activity 13% higher than the global average, Africa
is well placed to get startups off the ground, but it also has a
higher-than-average failure rate due to insufficient support and
infrastructure. The
Africa Growth Platform will bring together governments, investors and
businesses to help startups thrive and become sustainable. Experts
agree that ‘‘these are important steps forward. Because despite recent economic
growth, Africa remains subject to lingering challenges–including inequality,
relatively poor agricultural productivity and significant youth unemployment.’’ The
continent according to experts is also ‘‘about to witness a population explosion
of 2.4 billion people  by 2050.’’ Job creation is essential, and the 4IR –
underpinned by forward-looking trade agreements and support systems for
entrepreneurs – has the potential to supply much of that demand.