 Make A Difference Initiative 
(MAD) has decried the abuse of authority by the Nigerian Police with regards to
negotiating an out-of-court settlement on behalf of paedophiles with family of
child victims of their dastardly acts. MAD was particularly miffed by reports
at the weekend which disclosed that a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP),
Rufina Ukadike had released an alleged paedophile, Chief Shedrack N. Ejinwa
from police custody upon a negotiated settlement with the father of the 14 year
girl he allegedly raped. The initiative noted that
“defilement or any sort of sexual abuse is NOT a civil matter, but a
criminal matter and therefore no police officer has the authority to negotiate
or allow a negotiated settlement.” In a statement issued by the Communication
and Advocacy Director of MAD, Lemmy Ughegbe, he said the police lack the legal
authority to midwife an out of court settlement over any criminal act,
including rape or defilement. “Paedophilia is a crime against
the state. The duty of the police is to investigate and where it has evidence
of the commission of that crime, it should be charged to court, Ughegbe stated. He explained that “once
paedophilia or child sexual abuse is established against anyone, only the
Attorney General of States or Federation has the power to decide whether or not
to proceed with a case.” He called on the Inspector General
of Police to order the immediate re-arrest of Chief Ejinwa to stand trial over
the crime against the state, pointing out that the document of settlement was
an admission to the commission of that crime by him. He also asked that CSP Ukadike be
probed for releasing a man who has committed a crime of paedophilia against the
state “in excess of his power.” “As a senior police officer in
the rank of a CSP, he knows he has no power to release a suspected 
paedophile”, Ughegbe stated. He also called on NAPTIP to
investigate the victim’s father owing to his eagerness to get a pay off more
than seek justice for brutal violation of his daughter. “If no ulterior motive is
behind the father’s interest in money, then NAPTIP public enlightenment should
counsel him and help get psychotherapeutic help for the girl child to mitigate
her trauma”, Ughegbe advised.