Representatives of civil society, anti-corruption
agencies, government institutions and diplomatic corps from several West
African countries rose from a 2-day summit in Abuja on Thursday with a renewed
commitment  to work together towards
eradicating corruption and enhance stolen assets recovery in the sub-region. The sub-region which is one of the poorest in the
world is noted for serial practices of transfer of illicit funds through
smuggling, drug trade, human trafficking, corporate corruption, money
laundering and stealing of public funds by public officials and private
investors, running into billions of dollars every year. In recent years, this
has been compounded by illegal mining by international criminal gangs all of
which fuel poverty, infrastructural decay, health challenges, extremism and
even terrorism. About 100 representatives drawn from Nigeria, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Ghana, Gambia and other western countries met over the two days
on the theme Illicit Financial Flow and Repatriation of Stolen Funds Within
and From West Africa. For two historic days, participants deliberated on
corruption with particular focus on illicit financial flow and transfer of
stolen funds from within and across West Africa, the African sub-region made up
of 15 countries with a population of about 362 million people of diverse
heritage and civilizations. “This is a significant milestone in the history of West Africa. We have
gathered here to work out a sub-regional strategy against corruption in West
Africa. If we work together, victory is certain. There are criminals in Nigeria
who live like statesmen in Ghana and there are crooks in Senegal who are heroes
in Gambia because of lack of coordination and shared information on crime
actors” Chairman, Human Environment and Development Agenda,
(HEDA Resource Centre), Mr Olanrewaju Suraju, whose group organized the event
told an excited audience. Also speaking at the conference, the Director General
of the Nigerian Financial Intelligent Unit (NFIU), Moddibo Tukur said regional
cooperation was imperative in the fight against illicit financial flow, urging
the people to realise that corruption remains one of the biggest hurdles against
sustainable development in West Africa. The Special Adviser to the President on Economic
Matters (Office of the Vice President), Ambassador (Dr.) Yemi Dipeolu commended
the organizers of the conference and challenged the civil society organizations
on their roles as catalyst of social changes in the society. He reaffirmed the
findings of the Thani Mbeki Panel on Illicit Financial Flows from Africa with
further confirmation of the reports insufficient capturing of some more
egregious corporate malfeasance and economic exploitation against the
continent. The ultimate task of stakeholders is the prevention of Illicit Flow
of resources from the region. The organisers said the conference was informed by the
fact that West African peoples have shared history, fears, aspirations and
challenges and have for long been victims of horrendous cases of corruption in
the form of illicit transfer of funds which continue to fuel extreme poverty,
underdevelopment, starvation, instability and the growing trend of violent extremism. The sub-region remains at the bottom of scale of
poverty with low income per capital and poor GDP. Special Adviser to the President of Nigeria on Social
Investment Program, Mrs. Mariam Uwais, showcased the potentials of recovered
assets with the display of achievements of the Social Intervention Programmes
of the Nigerian Government from proceeds of recovered stolen assets. “Citizens
are the government and should engage with the process of monitoring utilization
of their resources by elected officials. According to her, the cost of stolen
fund recovery is enormous and valuable time lost.” The communique issued after the conference stated that
for an effective fight against corruption and repatriation of public funds kept
within or outside West Africa, civil society and governments in the sub-region
will strengthen cooperation, solidarity and networking to stem corruption and
ensure the repatriation of stolen funds and asset recovered within and outside
West Africa. The delegates noted that West African civil society
will work harder with governments and other relevant institutions towards
reclaiming of the floundering moral fortunes which is the bedrock of human
character in West African primary and tertiary institutions. It stated “Through information
and knowledge sharing, participants will positively explore Information
Technology, which has literarily broken down ancient borders, creating greater
opportunities for unlimited bound among the peoples and governments of West
Africa towards anti-corruption.” Participants also promised to work with all
stakeholders for institutional reforms focusing on critical areas like
taxation, customs duties, the civil
service, the banking sector and the judiciary for an impactful anti-corruption
campaign. The communique stated further “We call for greater national and regional cooperation among the various
anti-corruption institutions, law enforcement agencies and the civil society
for significant anti-corruption war. This also involves bringing the
initiatives of the major anti-corruption agencies in West Africa under one roof
to effectively tackle illicit finance and assets recovery.” The Conference calls for legal framework for the
disbursement of recovered looted funds to ensure expenditure for long term
benefit of the people urging the civil society across West Africa to work more
in the grassroots towards community empowerment for a more practical
anti-corruption action plan. Organized by Nigeria’s foremost anti-corruption group, the Human and Environmental Development
Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre) the conference was supported under the
Strengthening Citizens Resilience Against the Prevalence of Corruption managed
by Actionaid, Nigeria with funding from UKAids. Dignitaries at the conference included Special Advisers
to Nigeria’s President on Economic Matters and Social Investment Programme, Mrs Maryam Uwais and Ambassador Yemi
Dipeolu respectively; Moddibo Tukur, Director, Nigerian Financial
Intelligence Unit (NFIU); Coordinator,
International Press Centre (IPC) Mr. Lanre Gabriel Arogundade; Mr. Femi Falana (SAN); Representative of National Orientation Agency (NOA);
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC); Lisa Obeng, Deputy Director of Article XIX; Marr Nyang from The
Gambia; Samuel Thompson-Essel, Former Director of Ghana Financial Intelligence
Centre; Sahr Kendema and Tommy Ibrahim from Sierra Leone among many other
representatives of civil society and governments from outside the country.
Other participants were Prof Shehu Abdullahi, Dr Tunde Akanni, Mr Chido Onumah,
Prof Deji Adekunle, Mr Okey Nwanguma,  representatives of government
institutions and anti-corruption agencies including EFCC, ICPC and many leaders
of civil society groups.