 The
convener of the Employee MarketPlace (EMP) Initiative, Mr. Nduneche Ezurike,
has called on professionals in leadership positions within formal organizations
to pay greater attention to the development of their emotional intelligence
skills in other to deliver on innovation and business growth in the turbulent
era of the fourth industrial revolution. Mr.
Ezurike said this while fielding questions from the participants at the 2019
EMP forum which held in Lagos last week. The
convener acknowledged developments in affective computing and neural networks,
which have modeled algorithms after the human brain and greatly enhanced the
automation of many tasks. He, however, maintained that rather than erode human
skills, the developments instead present higher challenges for professionals to
develop and apply higher-order cognitive abilities in approaching leadership
roles within their organizations. Citing
the example of Sophia, which is the first humanoid robot, Mr. Ezurike noted
that with artificial intelligence, deep learning and machine learning, becoming
more prominent features in the workplace, Generation X leaders in the modern
workplace must embrace digital awareness as one of the fastest ways to unlearn
old ways, and acquire new skills in order to remain relevant both as
individuals and as organizations” He
further noted that although the Millennials are celebrated as pathfinders and
natives of the digital economy, sustainable digital leadership requires
advanced cognitive skills to maximize the value of digital talents and scale
enterprise innovation. He
decried that the low level of development of emotional intelligence skills by
the Millennials and low level of digital adoption by Gen X and Baby Boomers is
fueling inter-generational conflict in many organizations.  He noted that
“Employee Marketplace initiative is a leadership playbook focused on
co-creation regardless of gender or generation. It enables innovation-focused
enterprises to understand the interplay of three major factors: communication,
collaboration, and community in mobilizing talents. Above all, deliberate
attention to self- awareness, self-regulation, motivation, empathy and social
skills, will stimulate distinctive ways of thinking and working in today’s
business environment”. Sharing
his perspective at the forum, the Registrar and CEO of the Chartered Institute
of Bankers of Nigeria, Mr. Awojobi commended Mr. Ezurike for the Employee
Marketplace initiative especially for bringing up the millennial in the
workplace issue, stating that the older generations must brace up to the
challenge of tolerance and harmonious work environment in the digital era. He
also noted that to achieve a more productive and stable workplace, both
generations must learn to embrace each other. Mr.
Ikem Okuhu, Brand writer and the author of the book,  ‘PITCH: Debunking
Marketing’s Strongest Myths’ emphasized the need for organizations to define a
common purpose which helps to bridge the knowledge gap between the contending
generations in the workplace.