Borno Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum has expressed serious
concern over recent attacks by Boko Haram in some towns and villages of
Askira-Uba local government area of the state. The reaction follows boko haram’s attack on Chul village this
week, after similar attacks on Rumirgo, Lassa, Mussa, Kufa and Gwandam all in
Askira-Uba within the last three weeks. A statement on Thursday by the Special Adviser on communications
and strategy to the governor, Malam Isa Gusau, said Zulum had raised concerns
that whereas the insurgents appeared confined to the shores of the Lake Chad in
northern Borno, they have been able to reach other parts of the state. Gusau said: “Governor Babagana Umara Zulum is worried about the
recent attacks by Boko Haram  in Chul, Rumirgo, Lassa, Mussa, Kufa and
Gwandam towns and villages in Askira-Uba local government area of Borno
State. “The Governor shares the pains with victims of these attacks
and assured them of his administration’s continued effort in trying to address
the security problem. “The Governor intends to visit Askira-Uba when he goes to
Southern part of the state in the coming days. The Governor assures the
affected people of government support and more importantly, his commitment to
sustaining support for the military and other security agencies; to
continuously mobilize and aggressively equip volunteers under the civilian JTF,
hunters and vigilantes in all communities.” In this light, Gusau said the governor has since directed all
local government authorities to regularly work with all security stakeholders
in their respective councils for consistency review of security challenges and
deployment of necessary but lawful measures to safeguard lives and property,
being the most important duty of government. He noted that in addition to taking measures at the state level,
Governor Zulum will always accord authorities at the local government levels
all the necessary support they require particularly on the security of
citizens. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.