The Senate has mandated its
Committees on Foreign Affairs and Trade and Investments to, as a matter of
urgency, interface with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to investigate the
status of Nigerian businesses in Ghana. The decision to do so was
reached during plenary on Tuesday following the consideration of a motion on
“The need to investigate alleged ill treatment and injustices suffered by
Nigerian Traders and Businesses in Ghana”. Sponsor of the motion,
Senator Ifeanyi Patrick Ubah (YPP, Anambra South) said many Nigerian businesses
were established in Ghana following the desire of the Ghanaian Government to
promote trade relations with Nigeria under President Kufour. According to the lawmaker,
the presence of Nigerian businesses created thousands of jobs and contributed
to the growth of the Ghanaian economy. “As at the end of 2010,
Nigerian businesses accounted for sixty percent of foreign investments in Ghana
from the African continent. “Of recent, the once
flourishing economic relations between Nigeria and Ghana have come under
repeated threats as a result of recent hostile posture of Ghanaian authorities
and indigenous Ghanaian Traders Union towards Nigerian traders through the
adoption of discriminatory regulations aimed at frustrating Nigerian traders
and businesses such as the passage of the Ghana Investment Promotion Commission
(GIPC) Act,” he stated. The GIPC Act, according to
Ubah, “raised the amount of money in registering businesses owned by foreigners
– who are mostly Nigerians – in Ghana to USD$200,000 and further restriction
and prohibition of foreigners from trading in particular markets.” The lawmaker bemoaned what
he described as the “molestation of Nigerian traders and other hostile acts
directed against Nigerian businesses such as the recent closure of over six
hundred shops and businesses belonging to Nigerians carried out by the Ghana
Union of Traders Association (GUTA) on December 2, 2019.” He added that the Ghana
Investment Promotion Centre (GIPC) Act 865 of 2013 prohibits ECOWAS citizens
from engaging in Small and Medium scale Enterprises (SMEs). Ubah disclosed that among
the many obstacles placed on the way on Nigerian entrepreneurs is the
requirement of proof of importation of USD$1million into Ghana as applicable to
citizens of non-ECOWAS member states such as China and India. The lawmaker recalled that
Nigeria and Ghana had previously set up a Joint Task For-e from the Trade
Ministries of the two countries to inspect business facilities of companies
registered under the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS) to address
threats to business interests of Nigerians in Ghana. According to Ubah, all
measures and protection offered Nigerian traders under the ECOWAS framework
have failed to address incessant threats to Nigerian businesses in Ghana,
warning that “the situation may deteriorate into a serious diplomatic and
economic crisis.” Senator Yusuf Abubakar
Yusuf, in his contribution, said the allegation of discrimination against
Nigerians was for the most part in the motion speculative. Yusuf argued that the
introduction of legislation by the Ghanaian authority was most likely aimed at
insulating their economy and protecting the interests of local entrepreneurs. “I support the intendment of
this motion, it is very good and the intendment is excellent. However, I differ
from the procedure of achieving the intendment of this motion. “Some few weeks ago, we
passed a bill here on procurement, and we were trying to protect the interest of
our local or indigenous companies.” “I have read through the
motion and I find that there are so many areas that are highly speculative, and
I don’t think in this chamber we work on things that are speculative. “To talk about the $200,000,
I think they (Ghanaians) are trying to protect themselves, it is not targeted
at Nigerians. “In as much as they
(Ghanaians) have come out with certain policies, I think we should be very
careful to embracing the issue here and debating it.” “My own suggestion on this
is that we should be very careful how we handle this kind of motion so that we
do not create a diplomatic row”, Senator Yusuf cautioned. Senate Minority Leader,
Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia South) said, “I think the intendment of this
motion is the protection of our citizens living out of Nigeria. “Maybe the drafting may have
been such to raise our emotions where we talk about the question of
discriminatory acts and so forth. “I think that we should just
let this motion seek to make sure that we call attention to the fact of what is
happening to our citizens outside of this country, and see a way of making sure
that they are not unduly punished for reasons best known to the countries where
they belong.” In his concluding remarks,
the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said “this situation is another dimension of
a lack of understanding, or maybe lack of intervention and early engagement
between the two countries.” “I think the time has come
for Nigerian authorities to engage the Ghanaian authorities with the single
mind of getting a solution to this problem because this has been happening for
a long time. “So, we need to know what is
happening, and together with the executive arm of government, we have to find a
solution to this,” Lawan said. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.