By Haruna Salami The Senate spokesperson, Sen. Godiya Akwashiki has explained  that the
stepping down of the motion on the vote of confidence on the leadership of the
senate on Tuesday was in order, adding that there is no crack in the senate. While fielding questions from National Assembly correspondents on Thursday
in Abuja, Akwashiki said, stepping down the motion should not be anything for
anybody to worry about because it is not a motion of a vote of no confidence,
rather it’s a motion for a vote of confidence. “The motion in question is a vote of confidence.I don’t think its
something to worry about. You can only move a vote of confidence on any
leadership when its obvious that the leadership is doing well and o supposed
the reason for the motion,” However, the lawmaker advised the public to wait until the date the motion
will be moved on the floor of the Senate.

According to him, “Had it been that the motion was a vote of no confidence
on the leadership and the Senate president decided to use his powers to stand
down the motion, then you could say something is wrong, but since the sponsor
of the bill stood up and said a motion for a vote of confidence you can see we
are in order because it is not the only motion that has been stepped down by
the 9th senate,” he said. On the number of senators who appended their signatures on the motion, the
senate spokesperson said, that was not normal, adding that 36 senators signing
for the motion was very okay because the 109 senators can’t sign for a
particular motion rather if few sign the rest would debate it on the floor.

“A motion can only be moved by one or two persons or more so that when
brought to the floor the rest will debate on it, therefore, the number of
senators that signed for the motion was in order coupled with the fact that
both APC and PDP senators signed,” he opined. Meanwhile, he noted that the senate within the week received and treated
three executive bills and held a roundtable discussion on Power, Solid Minerals
and Agriculture.
It will be recalled that on Tuesday the senate stepped down a motion of a vote
of confidence on the leadership of the Senate sponsored by Senator Shittima
Kashim (APC) Borno and 35 others.