Mr Bala Dan Abu , senior media
aide to Taraba state Governor,Darius Ishaku has debunked claims that his boss
committed N200 m towards funding  the
alleged impeachment move against former) Speaker of the State House of
Assembly, Abel Peter Diah. Though the speaker has resigned from
his post, the speculations about the impeachment have continued. Reacting to the allegations, Mr  Dan Abu said in a statement made available to
Newsdiaryonline, that “Gov Ishaku will never sponsor and did not sponsor the
so-called impeachment move,   if indeed there was any such move by
the Honourable members, let alone fund it with such a staggering amount of
money from the public purse. “The allegations are ridiculous,
absolutely false and malicious. It is certainly for these reasons that the
author of the article failed to sign it. Governor Ishaku wants the general
public to ignore this article and the lies contained in it. Governor Ishaku is
an apostle of peace and will not do anything that will rock the existing level
of trust and understanding between him and members of the state House of
Assembly. The governor’s media aide recalled
that “The social media was on Friday November 29, 2019 inundated with reactions
to a certain unsigned fake news story containing essentially rumours of a
purported impeachment of principal officers of the Taraba State House of
Assembly including the Speaker, Abel Peter Diah. He also noted that “The article made
spurious claims to the effect that Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku was the
sponsor of that so-called impeachment plot and that he had committed N200
million  public funds to it.” The SSA to the Governor on Media and
Publicity  said “Nothing can be more
untrue. It is yet another wicked and malicious attempt to cause confusion and
conflict in the relationship between the executive and legislative arms of
government in Taraba State on the one hand and Governor Ishaku and Peter Diah,
his political god son, on the other. “Both men have had several years of
fruitful personal and official relationships nurtured by mutual trust,
cooperation and collaboration”, he said. Ridiculous story there. What occurred after? Thanks! Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest. Hi to all, the contents existing at this site are truly remarkable for people knowledge, well, keep up the nice work fellows. Good post. I learn something totally new and challenging on websites I stumbleupon everyday.
It’s always exciting to read through content from other
authors and practice a little something from other web sites.