By  Ibrahim Mohammed More often than not when the country’s
legislative arm of government makes headline news towards the end of year it is
largely on controversies over budget issues including padding and ‘’missing’’
budget. But this time around the Senate made a major departure from its comical
way of treating budget proceedings by passing the N10.6trillion (10,594,362,364,830) Appropriation
Bill presented on October 8 by President Muhammadu Buhari, to a joint session
of the National Assembly (upper and lower) legislative chambers into law in
record time. Thereby leaving behind the Hate Speech and Social Media Regulation
Bills to top the chart! So, what did the magic that robbed both local
and international audiences of the National Assembly some comical relief
lawmakers had in the past attached to budget proceedings in the West African
nation of over 200 million people according to UN estimates? Maybe the
emergence of President Buhari’s ally Senator Ahmad Lawan as President of the
Senate gave the Executive arm of government a smooth  sail. Besides, Newsdiaryonline recalls that after
presenting N10.33 trillion budget the lawmakers raised it up to N10.6
trillion with additional N560.47 billion for statutory transfers, a
category which covers the National Assembly budget and the presidency did not
kick over it until the budget was passed on December 5. Buhari’s disposition
this time around to ‘‘cooperate’’ with the Senators many believed saved the
face of the country from budget drama. Be that as it may, the upper legislative
chambers is most likely going to end the year with a lot of attention focused
on it over the Hate Speech Bill which seeks death penalty for anyone found
guilty of hate speech.There is  alsothe  Protection from Internet Falsehood and
Manipulation Bill 2019 which seeks to regulate use of social media platforms
that have become a vital avenue for public discourse.This is happening as  Nigerians grapples with mirage of challenges
including insecurity, sliding standard of living, corruption in judiciary
amongst others. Interestingly, the sponsor of the controversial
Hate Speech Bill, Senator Aliyu Abdullahi and Senator Sani Musa are both from
Niger State in North-Central Nigeria. The last time a federal lawmaker from the
state attracted global attention was when Senator Isa Mohammed slapped a female
colleague in the year 2004, he later apologised to Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, her
family, all women and other Nigerians offended by the incident. Although, the Hate Speech Bill is not a physical
slap but judging from the barrage of reactions it is generating since it was
reintroduced on the floor of the Senate the bill has carved a niche for itself
as one that touches the raw nerves of the people. The proposed death penalty for anybody found
guilty of hate speech and the regulation of social media platforms is seen by
most Nigerians as a toxic mix that must be resisted. But whether those opposed
to the death penalty component of the bill have the war chest to confront
sponsors and supporters of the bill into dropping it remains to be seen. However, the proposed legislation which first
surfaced last year before it was reintroduced this year and its co-traveller,
the social media regulation bill (first considered in 2015 on the floor of the
Senate) according to pundits have the trappings of laws that will grossly limit
freedom of expression in the country. Even without such a law some Nigerians have been
arrested and detained for their views on social. For instance, The Department
of State Services (DSS) the country’s secret police in June this year embarked
on nationwide crackdown of social media users allegedly caught posting inciting
materials on the Internet. This, in itself is being used as a reference point
by those opposed to the passage of the bills which they view as a matter that
could infringe on the potency of free speech safeguards as enshrined in
Nigeria’s constitution. DSS spokesperson, Peter Afunanya, in a statement
after the arrests said that some “unpatriotic” Nigerians have been using social
media platforms to make “unguarded public statements and/or use the social
media platforms to instil fear in the minds of citizens.” The statement also quoted Afunanya, as saying
that “these are reflected in the misleading statements and articles being
circulated among unsuspecting members of the public. Such inciting materials
oftentimes are designed to make or convey false accusations by one group
against the other.’’ According to him such persons “also resort to
skewing historical narratives to suit their objective of masterminding ethnic
violence in the nation. So far, some of the culprits have been arrested.” In this vein, the service expressed its
determination “to ensure that the tribal chauvinists and mischief makers do not
continue to exploit socio-political differences and Internet platforms to
threaten the peace and stability of the country.” The DSS then vowed to “sustain the apprehension
and prosecution of defaulters,” to prevent crimes and keep Nigeria as an
indivisible entity. Many are of the view that the secret police
position clearly indicated that use of social media platforms have become of
great concerns to the Nigerian government, as such the powers that be may be
giving tacit support to the bill which is currently before the senate. A pointer to the aforementioned is the recent declaration by
Nigeria’s First Lady Hajiya Aisha Buhari, that “if China can control over 1.3 billion
people on social media, I see no reason why Nigeria cannot attempt controlling
only 180m people.” The President’s wife who was speaking at Nigerian Supreme
Council for Islamic Affairs General Assembly and National Executive Council
meeting at the National Mosque, Abuja, added that “on this issue of social
media, you cannot just sit in the comfort of your house and tweet that the Vice
President has resigned. It is a serious issue.’’ There are no shortage of people speaking in favour of the bill
which many fears will adversely affect freedom of speech with a multiplier
effect of reversing Nigeria’s democratic progression. For his part, lawmaker in the 8th National
Assembly, Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central Senatorial
District said the social media bill was a threat to the fundamental rights of
Nigerians. Sani, currently the Executive Director, African Centre for Peace
and Development, in a statement said he was at a loss as to why the Muhammadu
Buhari administration, which got to power in 2015 largely due to social media
support was now trying to limit its usage. The bill on the regulation of social media, he noted ‘‘poses a
serious threat and danger to freedom of speech and expression. The quest to
regulate social media is a grand plan to silence critics and dissenting voices. “Combating hate speech is a smokescreen to annihilating free
speech. Any law aimed at limiting the rights and freedom of citizens to express
their views is aimed at building a tower of tyranny. “It is ironic that a government that came to power on the
promise of protecting the fundamental rights of Nigerians is now reneging and
sliding towards totalitarianism. Silencing dissents endangers democracy,” he
said. Sani said Buhari, “who was once a victim of abuse of power,”
must be conscious of his place in history and legacies on human rights and the
rule of law. He noted that, “Disobedience to court orders demonises a country
and criminalises a government. “Nigeria’s democracy is threatened by the authoritarian
tendencies of the people in power.” Senator Shehu Sani is not the only personality that supported
the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to power and now have cause to
question the motive behind the Hate Speech and Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulation Bills 2019. Another onetime ardent APC stalwart who is
not comfortable with attitude of the government and is making his voice known
in this regard is a former commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism in
Niger State, Mr Jonathan Vatsa. Vatsa, while addressing journalists in Minna, the state capital
recently echoed his misgivings on the proposed hate speech bill seeking the
death penalty for anyone convicted over hate speech, saying “you cannot stop
people from expressing their freedom of speech.” He wondered why the APC controlled upper legislative chamber
would ever contemplate what he described as “unpopular bill.” In an uncommon frankness among Nigeria politicians as  the former commissioner criticised the APC for
riding to power in 2015 on the tempo of widespread hate speech. According to the erstwhile spokesman of the All Progressive
Congress Niger State, “we (APC) brought Hate Speech to Nigerian politics and I [was] one of them as a Publicity Secretary of the APC. I know how we used Hate
Speech to mobilise Nigerians against the ruling party, and it paid off because
Nigerians hated the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” The APC chieftain without mincing words recalled that prior to
2015 elections, ‘‘Nigerians did not know anything like hate speech. In fact,
since the return of Democracy in 1999, we are just hearing about Hate Speech.
APC as a political party brought hate to politics in form of propaganda. “The truth must be told, we are the architect of Hate Speech and
nobody complained about it, we enjoyed it and it worked for us. “If we think we have failed Nigerians in our change promises, we
should be bold enough to tell Nigerians that we are sorry, we could not
deliver, but to try to cage them by trying to introduce or recycle Decree 4 of
1984 in the name of hate speech is unacceptable,” he stated. He posited that “corruption and injustice gave birth to what is
now called hate speech,” therefore, the Senate should propose the death penalty
for corrupt leaders. Vatsa, whose condemnation of the bill generated widespread
acceptance leading to retransmission on various social media platforms
explained that “if there is justice, equity, fairness and respect for rule of
law, there will be no Hate Speech. But when people are being marginalised and
denied their right, surely there will be hate speech. You cannot stop people
from expressing their freedom of speech. “If the Senate is proposing death penalty for Hate Speech, then
what will they do to Boko Haram, armed bandits, kidnappers, oil bunkers and
treasury looters, both politicians and civil servants. All these things are
worse than hate speech. “There are more pressing issues to Nigerians that the Senate
should look into and address instead of wasting their energy on an unpopular
bill like this one that will not see the light of the day. Vatsa, however, believed that there was more to the proposed
Hate Speech Bill, saying that “if the rumour of President Buhari nursing the
ambition of a third term is correct, then they need the death penalty for hate
speech to silence everybody who will want to oppose him.” Newsdiaryonline reports that Buhari has repeatedly
distance himself from a third term plot. The former Commissioner added,“But the Senate should know that
he who lives in a glass house should not throw stones because they cannot be
there forever. When they leave the Senate, the law can catch up with them. “If the millions of Nigerian youths can have something to do to
earn a living, they will not have time for hate speech. If people are allowed
to elect their leaders in a free and fair election, there will be no Hate
Speech. So, something gave birth to Hate Speech and that is what the Senate
should address,” he stressed. Mr. Jonathan Vatsa , however, cautioned the Senate that the
proposed bill was an invitation to anarchy “which, if care is not taken, might
consume all of us.” Similarly, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), in its
reaction to the controversial Hate Speech and Social Media Bills being
considered at the National Assembly, stated that the aim was purposely designed
to suppress Nigerians from speaking out freely on matters that affect their
lives. CAN Director of Legal and Public Affairs, Kwamkur Samuel Vondip,
said in a statement, recently, that “we have sufficient laws that could be used
to check excesses of individuals and organisations that are misusing social
media and propagating hate speeches,” citing the country’s Penal Code, Criminal
Code, Cyber Crime Act and other legal provisions on crimes that deal with hate
speech, defamation, libel, and similar offenses are clear and strong
enough. Contrastingly, former federal lawmaker who represented Taraba South at the
upper legislative chambers, Senator Joel Ikenya, backed the hate speech bill
saying freedom of expression as a fundamental right to citizens is being abused
by many Nigerians. Ikenya, while fielding questions from journalists said that many
people were miss using such a right to blackmail others especially on social
media. Meanwhile, Political
Officer of the Embassy of the United States of America, Jerry Howard, came up
with what may be seen as a game changer when he described the Hate Speech Bill
before the National Assembly as an “impressive” piece of legislation needed to
address issues of discrimination, hostility and violence in Nigeria. Howard stated this in Abuja during a meeting
with the Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate and sponsor of the bill, Senator Aliyu
Abdullahi, at the National Assembly, to seek an understanding into the proposed
legislation under consideration by the Senate. Following explanations by Senator Abdullahi on
the bill, Mr. Howard described the response of the media as “misleading” and
“hysterical.”  “We want Nigeria to succeed and we think a prerequisite for
Nigeria’s success is successful democracy. “For democracy to succeed, the people must have
a house, the people must have a place where their representatives can argue and
complain, come up with new ideas and come up with solutions to guide the
executive branch and lead the country forward,” Howard said. “I am very impressed with the research
you’ve done on the bill. The media has had a field day with this, really. “You’ve thought it through. I was depending on
the media for my education, and it was very misleading. You’ve done your
research and it is very interesting. “But you have a difficult job selling this to
the NGOs, CSOs. You need to talk to them. You’ll need to talk to Civil Society
Organizations, you need to educate them. You’ve educated me,” Howard stated. Speaking on the rationale for the bill Abdullahi
said “part of the reasons why violence takes place is attributable to
discriminatory practices. “It is discrimination that creates the
socio-political imbalance that you see leading to a group feeling shortchanged
and marginalised. “Discrimination is also another very serious
matter why I sponsored the bill. This bill basically is about preventing
discrimination, and prohibiting people who incite violence.” He pointed out that the bill’s introduction by
the National Assembly has the backing of Section 45 of the 1999 Constitution of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. The Section states: “Nothing in Sections 37, 38,
39, 40 and 41 of this Constitution shall invalidate any law that is reasonably
justifiable in a democratic society; in the interest of defence, public safety,
public order, public morality or public health; or for the purpose of
protecting the rights and freedom or other persons.” In this vein, Senator Abdullahi explained that
“an Independent Commission shall be constituted and whose membership will be
restricted to persons without any history of promoting ethnic or religious
causes, or anyone with political affiliations.” Nigeria’s constitution, as well as international
human rights law, protects the right to freedom of expression and provides that
any restriction to such rights must be justifiable. United Nations (UN) deputy secretary-general, Hajiya Amina
Mohammed, a Nigerian agreed while in the country recently that while laws can
be made against hate speech, the death penalty should be frowned at. However, as the beat goes, on one of Nigeria’s trading partners,  the European Union (EU),  has 
taken  a stand as the leading
institutional actor and largest donor in the fight against death penalty
worldwide. The EU holds a strong and principled position
against the death penalty in all circumstances and for all cases, in accordance
with the EU Strategic Framework and its related Action Plan on Human Rights and
Democracy. The universal abolition of the death penalty is one of the key
priorities of its Human Rights external policy, and such commitment is outlined
in the EU Guidelines on Death Penalty which were the first human rights
guidelines ever adopted by the Council of the European Union in 1998,
subsequently updated in 2001, 2008 and 2013. The EU considers Capital punishment as inhumane,
degrading and unnecessary. As a matter of fact, there is no valid scientific
evidence to support that the death penalty deters crime more effectively than
other punishments. Furthermore, any miscarriage of justice, which is a
possibility in any judiciary no matter how advanced it is, could lead to the
intentional killing of an innocent person by state authorities. Meanwhile, due to spiralling opposition to the
death penalty, sponsor of the
controversial Hate Speech Bill, Senator Sabi Abdullahi, bowed to pressure from
Nigerians when he declared recently that his proposed legislation would be
amended to remove death by hanging as the maximum punishment for offenders when
the bill is subjected to legislative input by the National Assembly. Besides, Abdullahi said that the bill would
undergo some fine-tuning to ensure that its provisions to be passed into law, reflect
the views of Nigerians. Newsdiaryonline has been a regarded as a major
source of concern of late especially ahead of elections.Nigeria’s Minister of
Information Lai Mohammed has  been
vehemently campaigning against hate speech.The National Broadcasting
Commnission,NBC has also been taking measures towards curbing hate speech. Civil Society organisations, CSOs like CITAD have been keeping close watch on the rising incidence of hate speech. The point however is that many Nigerians
disagree with death penalty as a punishment for hate speech.Former Director of
Army Public Relations, Brigadier General SK Usman(rtd) while delivering the
2019 Tozali TV Lecture in Abuja recently rejected  death penalty for hate speech. As the local and international reactions keep pouring in over the
controversial bills, several Nigerians are not  at ease with proposed legislations. How it
will ultimately end remains to be seen. Newsdiaryonline recalls that in 2015 the Cybercrimes (Prohibition,
Prevention Etc) Act was enacted. It criminalizes a wide range of online
interactions.