By Chimezie Godfrey The Exam Ethics Marshals
International, an organization that promotes best practices in education has
urged lawmakers to provide enabling legal framework for stamping out exam
malpractice, academic dishonesty, cultism and sexual abuse in primary,
secondary and tertiary institutions in Nigeria. Ike Onyechere, the Founding
Chairman, Exam Ethics Marshals International who made the call during a press
briefing on Friday in Abuja revealed that enabling legal framework is required
to stamp out exam practice, sex for grade and cultism in academic institutions
in the country. He pointed out that extant legal and
judicial frameworks have proved hopelessly obsolete and ineffective in
combating exam malpractice, sex for grades and  campus cultism, hence the
need for new legislative and judicial agenda. “Stamping out exam malpractice,
academic dishonesty, cultism in primary, secondary and tertiary institutions
requires robust and comprehensive new legislative, legal and judicial agenda by
federal and state legislative, legal and judicial institutions. “The sustained and commendable
efforts of distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Deputy Senate President, since
2016, towards enacting the sexual harassment in Educational Institutions
Prohibition bill is a move in the right direction. “Other legislatures should take
up the challenge of amending the reviewing of the laws for combating cultism
and exam malpractice,” he said. Onyechere stressed that exam
malpractice, campus cultism, academic dishonesty, and sex for grades pose
existential danger for not just the education system, students, staffs and
families but to national development, security and survival. He however, pointed out ten
imperatives for stamping out these evil from the institutions which includes
consensus, education, enlightenment and mobilization and new marshal plan of
action. Others are prioritization,
leadership, political will and courage, collaboration and coordination,
recognition, enabling legal framework, spiritualisation and sacrifice. Onyechere among other things
emphasized the need for collaboration among institutions to successfully tackle
the menace of campus cultism, sex for grades and exam malpractice. He added that no institution can
singlehandedly stamp out exam malpractice and cultism in the country. “No education ministry, agency,
institution, or stakeholder has the capacity and capability to singlehandedly
stamp out campus cultism and exam malpractice in Nigeria. “It is a collective
responsibility that requires inter-agency collaboration, co-ordination,
facilitation and support. “It is for this reason that I
join other stakeholders to commend all agencies that support inter-agency
collaborative efforts,” he said. He called on the leadership of the
federal ministry of education, including the Hon. Minister education, the
Minister of state for education, the Nigerian police force, including the
Inspector General of Police, among others to work in collaboration to stamp out
these evil from the nation’s educational system.