By Chimezie Godfrey The Council for Regulation of
Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) has said that it recorded alot of accomplishments
that had great impact on the regulation of engineering profession in Nigerian
in the year 2019. The council made this assertion on
Thursday in Abuja at a press briefing on the outcome  of the last quarter
council meeting for 2019. According to Engr, Ali A.
Rabiu the President, COREN, the council undertook series of very important
activities that  made huge impact on the
engineering profession in Nigeria. He pointed out that one of those
achievements was the signing into law the engineering registration amendment
act by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said, “Like we are already
aware, the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu
Buhari on Monday, 18th of March, 2019 signed the engineers amendment act into
law thereby giving the council far reaching powers in enhancing prosecutorial
powers, and strengthening it’s administration. “Also, expanding the quality
and scope of its regulations, increasing the number of council members,
improving sources of funds, strengthening the practice and professional
development of engineering profession, establishing an engineering regulation
monitoring department within the council and strengthening the definition and
concept of the practice of engineering. “COREN had over the years
achieved some degree of success in the areas of registration of engineering
practitioners, accreditation of courses in tertiary institutions and training
of practitioners. “However, the council had not
been able to enforce rules and codes of practice due to weak laws, inadequate
funding and inconsistency in government policies thereby necessitating the call
for a concerted effort at the review of the COREN Act which was eventually
assented to by Mr. President.” Rabiu said that an 18- man strategic
implementation committee for the new COREN Act was inaugurated by the President
and himself  with the sole objective to unpack the key issues in the Act
with the view to developing a roadmap for effective implementation. The President of the COREN council
also inaugurated  an engineering accreditation board which is required for
COREN to become a provisional signatory to the Washington Accord in its quest
to internationalize its engineering qualifications to enhance mobility of its
engineering practitioners. He disclosed that COREN has carried
out accreditation of engineering programmes in the Nigerian Universities,
adding that it has also collaborated with the National Board for Technical
Education (NBTE) to carry out accreditation of engineering programmes in
Polytechnics. He added that during the period
under review, COREN acccreditation teams has visited some Institutions to
acredit different programs. He said under the Universities, 12
institutions were visited, 44 programmes were assessed, 34 programmes had full
accreditation and 10 programmes had interim accreditation, while under the
Polytechnics, 19 institutions were visited and 31 programmes were assessed. Other achievements made by the
council in the 2019 as outlined by the President of the council are 
inauguration of committee on regulations and guidelines for registration, and
registration of engineering practitioners and firms. Others are the establishment of the
Engineering Regulation Monitoring National Technical Committee to strengthening
its regulatory powers for effective delivery using its State and Zonal
Inspectorates. On ERM visitations to organizations
and building collapse sites between January to December 2019, he said actions
are being taken on the 9 cases of collapse building but added that these
actions are still at the level of investigations. Rabiu promised that  COREN has
a lot of activities planned in the coming year 2020. Among these activities are
the inauguration of ERM National Technical Committee (NTC) and ERM State
Technical Committees (STC), among others. He urged members of the press to support COREN in the task of controlling and regulating the practice of engineering Nigeria by giving adequate publicity to its activities and in particular educating the general public on the laws regulating the practice of engineering.