 Former Senate President, Dr.
Abubakar Bukola Saraki has reiterated his position that the application to the
Federal High Court, Lagos, for interim forfeiture order on his Ilorin home by
the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is an abuse of the court
process and a violation of a subsisting order of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Saraki, in a statement by his
Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, noted that the
Federal High Court in Abuja presided by Justice Taiwo Taiwo had given an order
“restraining the respondents (Commission) by themselves, their subordinates,
agents, servants, or privies howsoever, from seizing, impounding, taking over,
confiscating or otherwise forfeiting the Applicant’s (Saraki) right to own and
peacefully enjoy any of his assets and properties”. “The EFCC’s claim that the Ilorin
property was built by any proceed of fraud is outrightly false. The fact is that
the Ilorin property was built partly by the Kwara State Government pursuant to
the Third Schedule of the Governor and Deputy Governor (Payment of Pension) Law
2010 while Dr. Saraki personally funded the remaining cost of the building.
There are existing letters from the Office of the Head of Service of Kwara
State notifying the former Governor (Saraki) of the State Government’s
compliance with the State Pension for Governor’s law and the one indicating his
intention to bear the cost of the additional expenditure that will arise from
building the property to his desired taste dated 25th January 2012 and 8th
February 2012 respectively. “The construction of the building
did not commence until the last few weeks of Dr. Saraki’s tenure as Governor
and the bulk of his contribution to the funding were made with cheques. Where
cash was involved, this was mainly in 2012 and 2013, more than a year after he
had left office as Governor. So, where is the claim that the money for the
construction of the house fraudulent obtained from Kwara State Government
coming from? It should also be noted that the land on which the house is built
is not a government allocated land. “One can only see that EFCC is
playing politics and spreading falsehood in its cheap attempt to witch-hunt and
intimidate a perceived enemy. We are also surprised that the EFCC could not
even hide its penchant for abusing the nation’s judicial institution as it
engaged in forum shopping when it filed a suit in Lagos on a property situate
in Ilorin. “We will like to restate our earlier
position that Dr. Saraki will contest this matter in the court at least to
further attest to his belief in the rule of law, the sanctity of the courts and
their enduring readiness to do justice in all matters and to all persons”,
Olaniyonu stated. Let it be known that the usual
claim by the EFCC that its actions were directed against corrupt elements does
not apply to Dr. Saraki because he is a man who at every point in his public
service has sought to institute transparency and accountability in
governance.  Dr. Saraki has always worked to promote transparency in
governance in all the places he had held public office. As a Special Assistant
to then President Olusegun Obasanjo on budget matters, between 2000 and 2002,
he initiated the passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Act and Public
Procurement Act. Both laws were aimed at ensuring macro-economic stability and
efficiency in government procurement through greater accountability and
transparency. As Governor of Kwara State, he
waived his immunity to enable his regime be probed. He is, perhaps, the most
investigated individual, in the nation’s democratic history. However, each
time, Dr Saraki has been given a clean bill of probity and health. It should be
noted that seven separate investigations were instigated on Dr Saraki during
his time in office as Governor. In September 2006, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, then
Chairman of EFCC, took to the floor of the Senate to give a clean bill to six
states, of which Kwara State where Dr. Saraki was then Governor was one. Under
Ribadu’s successor, Farida Waziri’s Chairmanship, Local Government Councils in
Kwara State were investigated in 2010 when Dr Saraki joined the presidential
race. During his Governorship years, he
introduced the Price Intelligence Unit, the first by any state government. This
unit reduced leakages in government revenues and introduced transparency and
efficiency in government procurement. The idea was later adopted by the Federal
Government as it became the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP). As chairman of
the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Saraki later influenced the adoption of
that law by many of the states. Kwara State under his governorship was the
first state to be rated by Fitch, the global rating agency which affirmed its
National Long term rating at AA-(minus) and ratings of B+ in public finance
transparency. At the end of his tenure in 2011,
the anti-corruption agency did not find any reason to invite him for any
questioning, even though his colleagues who also just left the Governorship
posts were interrogated and some of them were charged to court. It was more
than a year after he left office when he moved the controversial motion calling
for investigation into fuel subsidy that the EFCC first invited him for
investigation and nothing came out of that effort. Similarly, four years after
he left office and was elected Senate President against the wish of the
establishment, he was again charged to the tribunal based on his alleged
activities as Governor. Also, now, eight years after he left office as Governor
and having concluded his term as Senate President, the anti-graft agency has
decided, once again, to raise issues over his term as Governor. Dr. Saraki in his first term in the
Senate was the one who through a motion on the floor exposed the biggest fraud
in the country then. That is the oil subsidy scam. It was an action which set
him against the Presidency controlled by his own party. Consequently, he was
investigated by the Special Fraud Unit (SFU) at the conclusion of which the
Federal Ministry of Justice issued a letter clearing his name of any
wrongdoing. The above facts have shown that the
position Dr Saraki has taken in the fight against corruption in this country
both during his time as governor and in the Senate, particularly on the defence
of democracy and independence of the three arms of government, has put him in
constant clash with the establishment. That is why his current harassment by
the EFCC is just true to type, an after-thought and ill-motivated move. There is need to once again put it
on record that the Eighth Senate led by Dr. Saraki has played key roles in
institutionalizing the fight against corruption, which is the national
objective for setting up the EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies. Among the
bills passed to facilitate the fight against corruption include the National
Financial Intelligence Agency Act, which, in-line with international best
practices, created an autonomous Financial Intelligence Unit in the country
that would allow Nigeria to have access to information relating to financial
investigations in the 152 member countries of the EGMONT Group. The Senate got
commendation from the Financial Intelligence Database Agency (ultrascan) for
passing the NFIA Act and enabled the nation to be readmitted into the Egmont
Group.  In fact, the later directive by the NFIA preventing Governors from
accessing local government funds and banning banks from allowing transactions
from State Joint Local Government Account without monies first reaching the
accounts of the particular local government council is also a derivative of the
NFIA law passed by the Eighth National Assembly. Another contribution of the 8th
Senate under Saraki to the anti-graft war is the Proceeds of Crime Bill which
now pave the way for the country to become full member of the Financial Task
Force (FATF). South Africa was the only African country on the task force
before now.  The Senate also passed the Federal Audit Services Commission
Bill, which is aimed at empowering the Office of the Auditor General of the
Federation to ensure that MDAs comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Act in the
management of public funds and in the timely submission of their audited
account for scrutiny. The bill came out of the oversight by the Senate in which
it uncovered the fact that over 300 MDAs have not submitted their reports to
the office of the Auditor General in the past years. These are definitely not
the acts that a corrupt element will prefer. Other anti-corruption bills passed
by the Eighth Senate include the Whistleblowers Protection Bill, which seeks to
ensure that individuals that are in danger of reprisals in relation to
whistleblower activities are protected under the law; Mutual Assistance in
Criminal Matters Act which sought to among other things identify, trace,
freeze, restrain, recover, forfeit and confiscate proceeds, property and other
instrumentalities of crime; Witness Protection Bill, which is geared at
encouraging witnesses of crimes, especially organized crimes, terrorism or
other crimes to come forward and assist government and its agencies by offering
protection to witnesses willing to provide information,  and evidence for
the purpose of ensuring proper investigation. These are more fundamental issues
that can make permanent the anti-corruption war and remove it from the realm of
whimsical pursuits. All these are legislative measures taken by the Eighth
Senate led by Dr. Saraki to make the EFCC and other anti-corruption agencies
more efficient, and generally, in aid of the fight against corruption. It is to the credit of the former
Senate President and his colleagues in the Eighth National Assembly that they
offered strong support to the Nigerian Extractive Industry Transparency
Initiative (NEITI) and opened the floor of its chambers to it for the purpose
of articulating the contents of its report on handling of finances in the
Petroleum Industry. The objective was to compel various agencies related to the
oil industry to be more transparent and accountable. Dr. Saraki promised more
transparency on his inauguration as Senate President and therefore promoted the
concept of Open NASS.  With the Open NASS, the Eighth National Assembly
initiated the idea of Public Hearing on budget passage through which the
legislature engaged with Civil Society Organisations, labour, Non-Governmental
Organisations (NGOs) and other stakeholders to get their contributions into the
passage of the annual budget.  Also, the 8th National Assembly promoted
transparency tenets in which the full details of the budget of the federal
legislature were made available for public scrutiny. The engagement of the
Eighth Senate with the public in the process of conception, drafting and
passage of other bills were also unprecedented. Every Nigerian and global observers
are aware that the Supreme Court of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, on 16th
July 2018, affirmed the accuracy and authenticity of Dr Saraki’s asset
declarations, in a final acquittal of a case brought curiously against him by
the EFCC, through the judicial structure of the Code of Conduct Tribunal of the
Code of Conduct Bureau, whereby all public servants are mandatorily required to
tender their asset declarations. It should be noted that the
matter that went before the highest court were beyond the issue of Asset
declaration. The EFCC and Code of Conduct Bureau presented allegations of
corruption, money laundering and other financial crimes against the then Senate
President. Yet, in the 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court, the highest judicial
authority in the land cleared the Former Senate President of all allegations.
The same evidence which the anti-graft agency presented to the Code of Conduct
Tribunal and which were reviewed in the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court
in respect of the same property which it is now seeking to forfeit are the same
ones it is seeking to represent to the courts. That is why we see their present
action as an after thought and ill- motivated “However, we hereby assure all the friends, associates and supporters of Dr. Saraki that this ugly and unlawful abuse of judicial authority and disregard for the Rule of Law by a misguided EFCC will be addressed and contested in the legally appropriate fora by the former Senate President. We trust that the court will do justice in this matte” the statement said.