Your Excellency President Buhari, I am one of the 200 million citizens
in our country and I write to appeal to you to intervene in the political
crisis that has engulfed Kano over the past six months related to the attempt
by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje to dismantle the Emirate system and remove the
Emir. I am a student of politics and I know that you have no direct powers over
the Governor but I am writing you in your capacity as an elder and maybe one of
the few Nigerians the Governor would listen to. Virtually all the elders in
Northern Nigeria and very many people of goodwill from across the country have
appealed to Governor Ganduje without success. Please recall that since your
entry into politics, the good people of Kano have shown nothing but love and
affection to you and proved it by voting 
for you in great numbers in all the elections you have contested in.
Recall that in the period leading to the 2019 elections, many people in Kano
expected that in line with your anti-corruption crusade, you would withdraw
your support for the then gubernatorial candidate but you did not. In recent
months, the good people of Kano have wondered why you have remained silent on
the Kano crisis so I thought I would write to draw your attention to the
situation and the urgent need for intervention. Kano has been living under serious tension since 8th
May 2019, when the process of dismantling the Kano Emirate was initiated
by the Ganduje Administration. The Governor sent a query to the Emir of Kano
giving him 48 hours to respond to the interim report of the Kano State
Anti-Corruption Commission alleging malpractices. A new law dismantling the
Emirate was passed and signed but as a court ruled, the law was null and void
as its passage did not follow laid out procedure. While the court had stayed
action on the entire process as other cases on the authority of the Governor to
dismantle the Emirate were on going, the Governor disregarded the court and got
a second law approved by the State Assembly and has insisted the new “Emirs” he
has appointed must remain in office. This has raised the level of tension in
Kano considerably. Your Excellency is aware as Commander-in-Chief of our
Armed Forces that Nigeria faces numerous security threats in different parts of
the country and our security forces are overstretched trying to respond to the
threats. Kano has traditionally been a very volatile State but has been
relatively peaceful over the past few years. It is important that all efforts
are made to keep the peace. It’s possible that anger, disaffection and
opposition to the dismantling of the Emirate could lead to a breakdown of the
peace. Mr. President, you would recall that this idea of
dismantling the Emirate had been tried previously. On 1st April 1981, Governor Rimi created
four new Emirs that were declared to be co-equal with the Emir of Kano – Auyo,
Dutse, Gaya and Rano. The Emirs were becoming a crowd in the old Kano Sate as
the other Emirs of Second-Class status namely, Hadejia, Gumel and Kazaure were
also promoted to First Class status. Abubakar Rimi then declared Emirs to be
“mere public servants working under the directives of their Local Government
Chairmen”. On 7th April 1981, the Secretary to the
Kano State Government, dispatched a query to the Emir: Following the query, on 10th July 1981, violence broke out
and 34 persons were killed. Your Excellency, Kano Emirate has an illustrious
legacy whose demolition would do great damage to the people. The Emirate has
existed as a kingdom since 999AD and was absorbed into the Sokoto Caliphate
following the Jihad of 1804-1807. It has since emerged as the most
influential Emirate in the Sokoto Caliphate under the control of the Emir of
Kano traversing the entire territory that is now known as Kano state. The
Emirate is a melting pot, a mosaic of diverse ethnicities and traditions within
Nigeria and Africa. Sarkin Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II is the 57th ruler of
Kano and embodies all that history and is considered as one of the most
important Muslim authority in Nigeria after the Sultan of Sokoto. It is a
religious role, but it also one that has tremendous influence as
an advisory role to political authorities and also a key contributor in
the delivery of justice and other public services. The people of Kano
would feel betrayed if their Emirate is dismantled under your Presidency. One of the greatest concerns of the people of Kano is
the flagrant disregard for the rule of law displayed by the Governor. Just one
week after the Kano State High Court had dissolved the four additional
emirates illegally created by the Kano government under Governor Abdullahi
Ganduje, he reenacted them.  In his
judgment, Justice Usman Na’Abba said the Kano State House of Assembly did not
follow due process in creating the emirates. Specifically, he nullified the
proceedings of the State Assembly conducted on May 6, 7 and 8 which created the
new emirates. He concluded that Governor Ganduje should not have assented to
the law since its procedure was faulty. Finally, Justice Na’abba restrained the
four new emirs appointed by Governor Ganduje to desist from parading themselves
as first-class emirs. This should have been the end of a rather sad episode in
Kano history where a misguided Governor sets out to destroy a revered
institution with a 1,000-year history. As I write this letter, my attention has been drawn to a report
that the so called “Emir” of Bichi has just removed from office the District
Heads of Bichi, Dambatta, Dawakin Tofa, Minjibir and Tsanyawa. The District Head
of Dambatta, Sarkin Bai Muktar Adnan is 93 years old and has been in office for
65 years. He is one of Kano’s kingmakers and God has preserved him to select
four successive Emirs of Kano, including Ado Bayero, the father of Aminu Ado
Bayero, who purportedly removed him. He is loved and respected and carries so
much of Kano history and legacy on his shoulders. No one thought it possible to
announce in such a cavalier manner that such a venerable figure has been
removed from office. It has been very dark days for the people of Kano and its royalty
which is being torn to pieces as one person seeks vengeance on the Emir, Emirate
and the people Excellency, I wish to
draw your attention to the contention of Kano Emirate Kingmakers – Madaki,
Makama, Sarkin Dawaki Mai Tuta and Sarkin Ban Kano who have argued that there
is a serious risk of irreparable damage that will be done to the people of Kano
if the Emirate is dismantled. They have pointed out the idea that the House of
Assembly could establish new emirates is based on a fundamental misconception
that the Kano Emirate itself is a creature of statute. There is no law that
specifically establishes the Emirate which exists merely as a historical fact
and is recognized as part of the tradition and cultural heritage of the Kano
people. The precipitate action of the Governor and House of Assembly in the
hurried passage of the said law in a matter of 48 hours with no opportunity for
any public participation and the Governor’s defiance of court orders in
proceeding to implement and appoint new emirs despite the knowledge of the
proceedings before the court and the service of the court orders is simply
wrong and unbecoming of a governor and he should be told so in no uncertain
terms. In recent times, there has been no issue that
has annoyed the people of Kano as the attempt to desecrate the Emirate.
Governor Ganduje appears determined to engage in action to break the peace in
Kano and he should listen to wise counsel and take a lead in keeping the peace
by stopping his Emirate demolition plan. It is for these reasons, Your
Excellency, that I appeal to you to engage with Governor Abdullahi Ganduje with
the objective of discarding his Emirate demolition plan so that the State can
progress and prosper. What the people of Kano need is
good governance not the politics of vengeance. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.