By Chimezie Godfrey The Varietal Release Committee has given
approval for the commercial release of Genetically Modified GM cowpea beans,
known as Pod Borer Resistant Cowpea (PBR) Cowpea making it the first
genetically modified food crop in Nigeria, this year. Recall that the National Biosafety
Management Agency NBMA, last year approved the environmental release of the Bt
cowpea. Scientists and stakeholders have
said that the Bt cowpea would increase yield per hectare, reduce cost of
purchase of chemical for pest control, and safeguard of the environment from
the harm of excessive use of chemicals. The Nigerian beans have been banned
from entering the European Union Market due to excessive use of chemical to
control pest while the crop is on the field. Cowpea is vital for a lot of reasons
but in Africa, it is a crop that forms the bulk of food eaten in each household
on a daily basis. With just 1 cup or 171 grams of
beans containing 13.22g of protein, it’s a very good source of vegetable
protein and can serve as meat to people who cannot afford animal protein. Cowpea farmers in Nigeria are almost
discouraged from cultivating due to the level of damage caused by a pest, Pod
Borer Maruca Vitrata, which damages over 70 per cent of beans pod in the field. The cost of cultivating beans in
Nigeria increased because the farmer would need to spray chemical on the farm
up to 8 times in order to control the ravaging effect of Maruca. The Bt Cowpea has the potential to
resist this Maruca from destroying the plants. Bt Cowpea makes it possible for
farmers to plant and harvest quality yield twice in a year with reduced
chemical spraying in the farm which makes it less expensive to plant than the
conventional cowpea variety. According to the Principal
Investigator of the PBR Cowpea, Professor Mohammed Ishiyaku, of the Institute
of Agricultural Research (IAR), the new Cowpea requires just about 2 to 3 spray
of chemicals for a planting season to control the pest. “Instead of spraying the cowpea up
to 8 times, this new material has the potential to do a maximum of 3 sprays, it
can do very well compared to the one that can do with 8 sprays of insecticide. “We are targeting towards reducing
insecticide spraying in this new variety when it is released from around 8 to a
maximum of 3 sprays, that’s going to be a tremendous reduction in the
application of insecticide in the growth of cowpea. “Cowpea that are not improved
requires about 8 sprays of insecticide, hopefully we plan to reduce the amount
of insecticide so that farmers can save money from that, not only that, this
new variety of cowpea has the potential to produce between 100 to 150 per cent
more yield increase at the end if the day. “For every one hectare a farmer
sprays, he needs to spend at least N5400 for buying insecticide along, not to
talk of paying those who will spray the farm, water and others, but with this
new variety, the farmer can spend about N1000 or N2000 per hectare, the
reduction of about N3400 will make huge difference for the production”,
Professor Ishiyaku noted. Also, the Bt Cowpea was developed to
increase yield per hectare so that the over 500,000 tons of cowpea imported to
satisfy local demand is is closed up. The Country Coordinator of Open
Forum on Agriculture Biotechnology OFAB, Dr Rose Gidado in an interview with
Nigerian Tribune, said that Nigeria is losing huge sum of money annually
importing cowpea due to low productivity of the crop. “Of course Nigeria is losing money
because the low productivity means we won’t have enough to feed ourselves,
Nigeria is the largest producer of Cowpea in West Africa, our domestic use for
cowpea is high but what we produce is not enough, I think the deficit we run is
500,000 metric tons and it is being made up by importation, so we spend a lot
of money to import in order to have enough for our teeming population,”
she said. However, the Director General of
NBMA, Dr Rufus Ebegba has said despite granting the environmental release of
the Bt cowpea, it would also continue to conduct assessment of the application
of this technology to ensure that the proper things were done. “Our business is to ensure safety,
and we are prepared, we have started the process, let the members of the public
know what is coming, what are the measures that are being put in place, the
science of the developing it is already being analysed by the scientist
himself, so let those who have the knowledge also get themselves involved. “As for the Agency, we are well
prepared to analyze the product to ensure that it is safe, if it is not safe,
we will not approve it, if it is safe, we have no reason not to approve
it,” Dr Ebegba said. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.