 Africa is in profound
despair caused by the entrenched pessimism (or is it cynicism?) that the
continent cannot take-off not to talk of catching up.  Nigeria has almost
declared literarily a failed state. Mousier John Campbell was a former US
ambassador to Nigeria (from 2004 to 2007). He wrote a book entitled Nigeria:
Dancing On the Brink (2010). He almost predicted that Nigeria would not
survive  2011 elections in Nigeria. It  was   BB’s  works
are upbeat about prospects of Africa’s development either through the
capitalist way and his favored socialist development. Still on   UNION
POWER in the Nigeria Textile Índustry. Implicit in his findings is that Asia
actually has a lot to learn from Africa in terms of labour relations. 
Instead of the repressed, non-unionised and absolutely subordinated labour
force of far East Asia, the Nigeria’s textile industry shows a labour regime
that is union oriented, autonomous and recognised by employers.  Instead
of teenage girls regimented in factory dormitories working longer hours as far
back as 1985, Nigerian textile plants show a distinctly different labour regime
where a predominantly educated, mature, male labour force with family
responsibilities seemed to have a considerable autonomy in the work place, for
themselves and their unions. A bold attempt is made to combine political
economy with place theory and test the concept of union-centered labour regime
in both Kaduna and Kano, two textile cities with different features.  The
findings though problematic do not alter the general conclusion that
union-centered labour regime is entrenched in the industry.  Kaduna’s
mills namely UNTL and KTL are relatively scored higher in ters of entrenchment
of union rights than Kano’s Bagauda and NTM which are rated relatively
low.  The issue however is that none of the six company case studies
denied union presence, however marginal. A reader will however be eager to know
what actually constitute the basis of this union centered labour regime? 
What makes the first generation “unconsolidated” workers assert themselves in
different companies with such diverse ownership and management practices? 
Answers to these questions are in the book (chapter 13.).  The union based
labour regime is said to rest on state regulation and workers’ organisation. 
Independent workers’ self organisation with preference for accountability,
militancy, commitment to rights and duties of members, professionalization and
resourcefulness are singled out as the hall marks of NUTGTWN.  There is no
doubt that the events of May 1993 deeply questions the relevance of the
conceptual frame work of union-centered labour regime, the authors nonetheless
show that the manner the union like ‘Phoenix rising from ashes’ further
confirms its resourcefulness and fighting spirit. Corporatist state regulation
in terms of automatic cheque-off, protective labour laws and monopoly
representations are said to have enhanced the celebrated union power. 
This is however debatable.  The question first is whence the corporatist
regulation?  How committed is the state to its own side of the 1975
so-called labour pact to the extent that it has enhanced union power? 
Even in the cited case of KTL, we see how police pitched camp with capital in
opposition to protesting workers.  In 1993 too, we see how the combined
institutions of the state orchestrated attack on the union.  In the two
cases, it is the self-assertion of the union and its capacity to defend itself
that actually sustained the union power rather than the state regulation. 
What then are the policy implications? Going by the centrality of
state “recognition”, “accommodation” in union-based labour regime, the policy
implications will be continuation of state regulation. Yet this will not be
desirable given the over-whelming evidences that state support might have
actually retarded union growth. The question is can we talk of same ‘union
power’ in other industries and public sectors as much as we could see such
power in the textile industry?  If not, why so?  Answer may very well
be in how state regulation has manifestly made unions complacent and
non-accountable to members. However all said, BB’s
analysis of union power could only have taken place when Textile industry was
thriving. Of course there had always been “crisis before the crisis”:,
smuggling and foreign exchange crisis which undermined industry’s
competitiveness in the 80s. But the whole sale massive closures of textile
mills have greatly weakened union power. No thanks to persistent power failure,
massive dumping of Textile materials from China, product counterfeiting,
inconsistent industrial policies and shortage of basic raw materials like
cotton. BB’s findings indicated that UNTL was a company record of successful
adjustment and strong union presence. However with unprecedented Big Bang, in
2007, UNTL with direct 5000 jobs actually shut down. It only reopened in 2010
but far from its capacity utilization of the 80s and 90s. It employs less than
2000 today. Union  power had focused more on revival of the union. The
renewed interest of President Buhari in reviving Textile Industry further
points to union power in advocacy. The industry remains the key driver of
sustainable jobs and development for most national economies of developing
nations.  Indeed for Nigeria and Africa to meet the Sustainable
Development Goal 2030, especially SDG 9 dealing with industry and
innovation, Africa continent must innovate and industrialize.
Africa must copy China’s industrialization drive which has within 20 years
moved over 250 million people out of poverty through manufacturing and
industrialization. The best tribute to BB will be to  revive the industry
which once served  as a case study that African Industrialization was
possible. When Beckman wrote Nigeria was the third producer of Textile in
Africa following Egypt and South Africa.  President Buhari has commendably
raised the prospects of reviving the industry to create employment for farmers,
weavers and spinners. First now in place is a comprehensive Cotton, Textile and
Garment (CTG) policy which aims at reviving  the entire value chains
of  cotton growing, Ginneries, spinning and weaving, printing and garments
production. Issa Aremu mni Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.