 Adara stakeholders
have expressed total support for the Kaduna State Government’s efforts towards
rebuilding the Kasuwan Magani  ultra
modern market. The  expression of support was part of the
highlights of a communiqué at the end of Kajuru LGA’s  Adara Stakeholders’ meeting held at GDSS
Maraban Kajuru on Wednesday 18th December 2019. A copy of the communiqué
made available to newsdiaryonline said in part that,  “Participants in totality supported the
efforts of KDSG in rebuilding Kasuwan Magani ultra modern market and call(ed)
for a faster reconstruction efforts so as to meet up with the stipulated
completion period  of the project.” See excerpts from the communiqué below: Communiqué issued at the end of Kajuru LGA Adara
Stakeholders meeting held at GDSS Maraban Kajuru on Wednesday 18th December
2019. The meeting was chaired 
by the Executive Chairman Kajuru LG Hon. Cafra Caino. In attendance were some Former Kajuru LGA chairmen, Executive
Chairman and Council members, Former Commissioners from Kajuru LG,  District Head of kufana with all his village
heads, ADA National President, ADA kaduna leader, ADA Kajuru branch leader,
chairman youth Council, Chairman Kasuwan magani market Committee,   members , Kajuru Legislative members,
Chairman Kajuru IDPs committee, Former ADA National leaders, APC, PDP, APGA,
SDP party chairmen at LG Level or their Reps, Former KDHA members and other
relevant  key stakeholders. Hon. Cafra Caino, who spoke on the relative peace enjoyed by
the residents, cautioned them to be weary of people with questionable
character, a measure he described as the only way that could avert any
impending attack in the area. Emphasizing the need for security consciousness among the
residents, the chairman of the Local Government Council , posited that security
issue is a collective responsibility, urging them to assist the security by
keeping night vigil. He further, informed participants that  three key issues; Security, IDPs and
Kasuwan Magani Ultra modern market rebuilding efforts affecting adara as a
people was to deliberated upon and  a
possible better way forward was to be also 
looked into. Similarly, The chairman Kajuru Truth peace and
reconciliation committee of the Local Government Area, Rt. Hon Patrick Stephen
Maigari , described the meeting as timely, he also reemphasised on the need for
the ethnic groups in the area to accommodate each other as one and coexist
peacefully with one another irrespective of political affiliation for the
progress of the area. Speaking in the same vein, the District head of kufana,  Mr Titus Dauda, appreciated the state
Government and the chairman of the local government council for their
steadfastness in restoring total peace in the area. In addition, noteable adara sons took time to shed in their
views and offered words of wisdom 
towards finding a lasting solution to the aforementioned issues. Conclusively, after a heated debate on the matters arising
bothering the  community at large, the
following resolution were agreed. RESOLUTIONS
: 1. That the security issues be discussed discretely at a
later date. 2. It resolved that ADA and LG IDPs committees should be
fused together to work in harmony. 3. Participants in totality supported the efforts of KDSG
in rebuilding Kasuwan Magani ultra modern market and call for a faster
reconstruction efforts so as to meet up with the stipulated completion
period  of the project. The closing prayer was said by Mr. Dio Maisamari, ADA
National President, after the communiqué was adopted by all stakeholders at the
meeting. MODERATOR
: Rt. Hon Patrick S. Maigari Rapporteur: Hon Williams Toro Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.