When the news broke that President
Muhammadu Buhari has reconstituted the Board of Federal Inland Revenue Service
(FIRS) with Mr. Mohammed Nami as chairman-designate via an executive
communication to the Senate on December 9, 2019, Nigerians hailed the decision
as well deserving. Any keen observer of the torrents of
conversations on the appointment on various media platforms will see that
aggregate public response indicate high expectations for the new board;
citizens’ readiness to engage and collaborate with FIRS as it discharges the
onerous task of growing the economy. Also, a cursory look at views and
opinions available in the public space on the new FIRS Board indicate that most
Nigerians endorsed President Buhari’s choice of Mr Nami for the FIRS top job.
There is a congruence of thought that his coming at this point in history will
help to reposition the service in delivering its mandate as the nation’s key
revenue agency. Given the antecedent of the chairman
designate, there is no doubt that a new era beckons at the nation’s tax
manager, the FIRS. The Service now has an opportunity to connect with tax
payers – citizens, corporate entities and indeed all stakeholders itching for
improved service delivery in tax administration in Nigeria. Going through Mr. Nami’s resume, it
is reassuring that his job is well cut-out for him as he will hit the ground
running to take FIRS to greater height after confirmation by the Senate. A
consummate professional horned in the best tradition of integrity,
transparency, and accountability, he has courage of convictions that has stood
him out in his professional career over the last three decades. A trained tax,
accounting and auditing professional, he will deliver on this new national
assignment with utmost sense of responsibility as he did in previous
tasks. He is a graduate of Bayero
University Kano and Ahmadu University Zaria where he obtained a Bachelor degree
in Sociology in 1991 and a Masters of Business Administration degree in 2004.
He is a fellow of Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Institute of Debt
Recovery Practitioners of Nigeria, Associate member, Nigerian Institute of
Management (Chartered), and Association of National Accountants of Nigeria. In
2017, he was appointed by President Buhari as a member of a three-member Audit
Committee on Recovery and Management of Stolen Assets set up to audit recovered
public assets. Mr. Nami has served in different
capacities in various national assignments in the past, where he delivered
beyond expectations, earning him admiration of the people. Today, the fruits of
those little efforts have culminated into higher call to serve by the President
to lead the new FIRS board. Being a leader of men and resource,
he will bring to bear a renewed sense of commitment to duty among FIRS staff;
shared vision and mission that will drive FIRS towards achieving set targets
and deliverables for the benefit of the Nigerian people. Also, he will restore
staff confidence and put in place a well-motivated workforce vital to
delivering high impact results and productivity. FIRS plays strategic roles in the
architecture of nation’s political economy, including actualising President
Buhari administration’s commitment to move 100 million Nigerians out of poverty
over the next 10 years by expanding the tax net, institutionalising best
practices through efficient revenue collection system and strengthened
engagement with citizens and corporate entities. The FIRS board is coming on the
heels of the renewed drive by President Buhari’s commitment to transparency,
accountability, and open governance framework hinged on patriotism and selfless
service. The new board from the onset will key into the vision of the President
to ensure that the national prosperity is paramount in service delivery for all
citizens. One core issue that FIRS board under
Mr Nami’s leadership would need to focus on is how to restore the glorious era
of the service, with a well-motivated staff ready to discharge their
responsibilities without fear or favour; and the restoring citizen’s confidence
in FIRS as a service driven organisation. The board should aspire to restore
the Ifueko Omoigui pioneering era replete with overriding aspirations of
building a revenue agency that delivers on shared goals to promote accountable,
open and transparent leadership in the sector. Until Monday, when the tenure of
the immediate past Chairman of FIRS, Mr. Babatunde Fowler expired, there were
concerns that the machinery of the agency had long been rendered unworkable,
and put against the classical definition of a government organisation. Career progression is said to have
been thrown into the dust bin, as more than 500 Senior staff who passed
promotion examinations from 2016 to 2019 have remained stagnated and some
frustrated out of service. Some directors are also said to have resigned in
anger when management compelled them to knuckle under the orders of rookies who
were recruited into the service through the back door. To put it mildly, FIRS did not run
like a proper government organization in the last four years—decisions were
taken unilaterally, meetings were not held regularly and memos were not
followed up, if they existed at all. The complaints coming out of Revenue House
are just too many and no one can be under any illusion that Nami is inheriting
a badly run-down revenue agency. As the new FIRS helmsman settles down, it is
expected that many of these burning issues will be addressed. Nigerians look forward to better
days ahead as the National Assembly sets date to confirm President Muhammadu
Buhari’s nominees to the board of Federal Inland Revenue Service led by Mr
Nami. It is pertinent to note that the
President has taken yet another step to reposition the country’s revenue
collection agency to consolidate the gains of the administration’s efforts to
scale up economic activities through a robust tax administration in Nigeria.
The appointment of new FIRS chairman, Mr Nami is coming at the right time with
definitive goal of restoring the integrity of the service. Ndayebo lives in Abuja