Two
months into closure of Nigeria’s land border to curb smuggling activities,
especially rice, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is betting on same
measure to rekindle the agriculture sector. The
government’s directive will save the country billions of naira on import bills. Receiving
a delegation of Katsina State Elders Forum at his country home in Daura, the
President said the country’s domestic fuel consumption had dropped by more than
30 per cent, following closure of land borders. President
Buhari said he had not given any date for the reopening of the land border
until the situation improves. The
President commended the actions taken by the President of Niger Republic,
Muhammadou Youssoufou, including the dismissal of officials and a ban on use of
the country as a dumping ground for Nigeria-bound smuggled goods. President
Buhari noted that the measures taken by the President of Niger were helpful and
supportive. President
Buhari acknowledged the hardship of border communities following the ban on
sale of fuel at stations 20 kilometres to the border, a restriction that also
saw to the closure of all fuel stations in his native home, Daura. ”Farmers must be protected. Dishonesty is deep
rooted in the country. Otherwise the border closer would not have been
warranted,” he said. According
to him, the restriction was a temporary measure as the Nigerian Customs Service
needed to ascertain outlets involved in real sale of products and those being
used for smuggling. President
Buhari told the delegation that he intends forging ahead with poverty
alleviation schemes and the agricultural and livestock reforms started by the
administration in the first term, since the election was behind him and a
government now in place. He
explained that the reforms, especially those relating to the settlement of
livestock herders would take time to accomplish, assuring that his deliberate
choice of tested farmers as his past and current ministers of agriculture was
informed by the need to carry his vision through. Earlier
in his remark, the representative of the Chairman of the Elders Forum, Alhaji
Aliyu Saulawa, commended the achievements of President Buhari and Governor
Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State in curbing the menace of bandits,
kidnappers and cattle rustlers. He,
however, drew a long list of requests which included a special intervention
fund to assist victims of attacks, completion of the 10 megawatts wind power
project in the state, setting up of a North-West Development Commission and
setting up of Ruga farm settlements. He
said the farm settlements were urgently needed. The
Elders Forum also made a case for numerous infrastructure projects for the
state, as well as for keener federal government’s scrutiny of benefits of
social investment schemes. President
Buhari promised to look at the requests. The
President added that his constituency is the whole country, and he is
determined to be fair to all, including those that voted him into office and
those that did not.