…names 14 community Liaison Officers,
others Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde,
has announced the appointment of Dr. Olufunmilayo Salami and a Kano indigene,
Alhaji Ahmed Murtala as Special Adviser Health and Special Assistant Community
Relations I, Arewa community respectively. The Governor also approved the appointment of
Chief Jacob Adetoro as chairman, Federal Constituencies Liaison Officers, while
naming 14 Constituency Liaison Officers, representing each of the State’s 14
Federal Constituencies. A statement signed by the Special Assistant
(Print Media) to Governor Makinde, Moses Alao, indicated that the Governor also
approved the appointments of Hon. Femi Josiah as Special Assistant on Community
Relations II for other communities. The Governor charged the new appointees,
whose appointments took effect from November 27, to see their appointments as a
call to service, charging them to discharge their duties with absolute loyalty,
dedication and diligence. Dr. Salami, who until her appointment as
Special Adviser on Health to Governor Makinde, was a Consultant to the
Government on Health, is a United States of America-based Pediatric Emergency
Medicine Physician. The new Special Assistant on Community
Relations for the Arewa Community, Mr. Murtala, hailed from Nasarawa Local
Government of Kano State and had his primary and secondary school education at
St. Brigid Boys School, Mokola, Ibadan and Community Grammar School, Mokola,
Ibadan respectively. He will serve as the bridge between the Oyo
State Government and the Hausa/Fulani community as well as other Northern
groups scattered across the State. Governor Makinde had, at a recent forum,
while receiving a contingent of the Niger State Youths, which were in Ibadan to
present him with a white horse and an award in recognition of his excellent
service delivery in the first six months in office, promised to appoint a
Special Assistant from the Hausa/Fulani community to serve as the link between
the Government and the community, especially in the face of farmer-herdsmen
crisis. The appointments were communicated through
letters signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo
Adeosun. The 14 Liaison Officers appointed by the
Governor were: Alhaji Ajibike Osuolale Lateef (Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Kajola and
Iwajowa); Alhaji Salami Lukman Adisa (Saki East, Saki West and Atisbo); Alhaji
Afees Tijani (Orelope, Irepo and Olorunsogo); Hon. Ganiyu Laaro (Oriire,
Ogbomoso North and Ogbomoso South);    Mr. Sanjo
Akintola    (Ogo-Oluwa and Surulere); Mr. Wale Ogunmola (Afijio,
Oyo West, Oyo East and Atiba); Hon. Monsuru Oduola (Ibarapa North and Ibarapa
Central). Others were: Mrs. Julian Nwachukwu (Ibadan
North); Mr. Olumide Akinlade (Oluyole); Alhaja Kafilat Olayiwola (Ido and
Ibarapa East); Alhaji Labule Ishola (Ibadan South-West &North-West); Alhaja
Yahaya Akinbile (Ibadan South-East and North-East); Mrs. Wulemot Ibitoye
(Akinyele/Lagelu) and Mr. Adegboyega Akinlolu James (Ona-Ara and Egbeda).