Lagos
State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has warned that government will not
condone any form of disobedience to the laws of the State, vowing that harsh
punishment awaits anyone who attacks men of the State’s law enforcement
agencies in the line of duty. The
Governor sent the warning on Monday at the residence of the late Ola Ganiyu
Oyeshina – the slain officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority
(LASTMA), who died last Saturday after an attack on him by two trailer drivers
in Sifax-Iganmu area of Apapa. The
late Oyeshina, 34, hailed from Osun State. He was said to be an orphan. The
Governor, who expressed his displeasure over the gruesome killing of Oyeshina,
said the incident of his unfortunate death is a wake-up call to all Lagosians,
describing the attack on the LASTMA officer as “mindless and callous”. He
said the Government would “thoroughly prosecute” the arrested culprits to send
a clear signal to those who have penchant for attacking law enforcement agents
in the line of duty. He
wondered why some members of the public would take pride in brutalising those
working to make the society better and safe. He vowed to make Lagos inhabitable
for those inclined to disobey the State’s traffic laws. He
said: “In the last 48 hours, we’ve had heavy brutality on men of LASTMA who
were doing their work. We’ve had people whose legs have been amputated in the
last 48hours whilst on the assignment that was given to them to bring about
enforcement of our laws and orders. “I
think this is the level at which we need to make this very stern warning that
we will not stop at ensuring that we implement and enforce our laws not minding
which force is involved. Lagos will not condone people that will not obey our
laws. He
added: “We cannot be condoning reckless killing and sending our young men to
early grave. This government certainly will not stand for that.” “We
are using this opportunity to tell people that Lagos wants to remain secured
and safe for all of us.” Members
of the State Executive Council including the Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi
Hamzat, were part of the delegation that visited Oyeshina family house in
Surulere. Commissioner
for Special Duties, Dr. Wale Ahmed, led a short prayer session held for the
deceased.