The
Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has
said that both the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Justice had the sum of
N5.6 billion inserted in the 2019 budget for the execution of zonal
intervention projects. ICPC
Chairman, Professor Bolaji Owasanoye, at a media roundtable in Abuja, to
promote the ‘My Constituency, My Project’ initiative of the Commission revealed
that a breakdown of the 2019 allocation for zonal interventional projects shows
that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) would spend N2.9 billion on
constituency projects. Owasanoye
added that the allocation of N2.7 billion to the Ministry of Justice in the
same budget brings to the fore, some of the anomalies surrounding the
implementation of constituency projects across the country. He
was concerned that constituency projects, which principally were projects and
empowerment programmes designed to bring development to rural communities
within the country had been included the budgets of MFA and other non-relevant
ministries and agencies. According
to him, “What is constituency project doing in Foreign Affairs? We will ask
questions with this kind of allocation.” The
ICPC boss further revealed that only about 60 percent of constituency projects
have been completed with a lot of them executed in shoddy ways due to poor
technical designs, impositions and other sundry irregularities. He
stressed that the Commission would not give up on tracking of constituency
projects as long as government kept funding them and therefore called on local
communities to own the projects for themselves. Professor
Owasanoye also called for the handover of zonal intervention projects to local
government authorities upon completion for effective maintenance and
sustainability of the projects. He
said, “If somebody had nominated a project and succeeded in getting the project
to the community, it is not the duty of the person to maintain it. Communities
need to understand that it was public funds that was used. They need to take
ownership. We recommend that the project needs to be handed over to the local
government for the community to take over.” The
Director General of the National Orientation Agency, Dr. Garba Abari, who was
also at the round table called for citizens’ participation in constituency
projects. Abari
noted that the active involvement of the communities in planning and execution
of constituency projects would remove the issues of corruption and abuse. He
stressed that such ownership would ensure that contractors do not use
substandard materials for the projects as well as ensure that completed
projects were not vandalized when handed over. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.