The Writers Against AIDS has urged the Economic and
Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to probe  and investigate the financial
transactions of state agencies for the control of HIV/AIDS across the country
headed majorly by some wives of few states governors. According to WAAIDS, It is no more news that Nigeria is
Africa’s most populous country and is home to the third largest number of
persons living with HIV/AIDS. Poverty, stigma, embezzlement of HIV/AIDS grant funds,
discrimination and a poorly coordinated health system constitute major barriers
to HIV treatment and prevention efforts in some states. This was contained in a press release issued and signed by
the national coordinator of the group, Mr. Wole Adedoyin in Ibadan on Sunday
after a strategic meeting with some stakeholders in the state. According to WAAIDS, the HIV funds which ought to have been
used in taking care of people living with AIDS were either diverted into an
unknown accounts for selfish purpose or used for  unknown activities, whereas hundreds of people
living with HIV/AIDS are dying every day. In some states, Chairmanship and
membership into the State’s agency for the control of HIV/AIDS are now
political. As some politicians think it is an avenue of making their millions
not minding hundreds and thousands of lives begging for care, attention and
medication, the group said. “It is our opinion that the agency for the control of AIDS
should be headed by medical practitioners who are well versed in the field and
not the wives of elected state governors who have seen the position as their
constitutional rights” “It should also be noted that every new infections start
with someone who is already infected. New infections occur because infected
persons do not take the necessary precautions or because of poorly organized
protective services. Patients are also not being sufficiently educated on their
responsibility to prevent the spread of HIV and are not being included in
protective service. HIV diagnosis is a traumatic experience that significantly
changes a person’s life. Many people in Nigeria are still unaware of their
status; these and others should be the watchwords of those agencies at the state
level but they failed to discharge them .” “We are therefore calling on EFCC to beam her searchlight
and investigate fraudulent activities going on in some of these states
agencies. Their accounts should be audited. Valuable lives of people living
with HIV/AIDS are wasting every day for political reasons.