That Aisha Buhari’s rebuke at the
National Mosque during the National Executive Council meeting of the National
Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) could not have come at a better
time. That the nation’s religious leaders have to be told by none other than
the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, that things are getting out of hand, is an
indictment not just of governors, as the reporters would like the general
public to believe, but of the nation’s entire political elite. Unfortunately, the haste to paint
state governors with one brush or the race to hit the front pages in this case,
destroyed the message that the First Lady seeks to convey. Mrs. Buhari was
sermonizing on anyone in a position of power or authority to fear Allah in
whatever they do because, according to her, as it is said in the scriptures,
everybody would eventually account for his deeds before the Almighty God. To insinuate, therefore, that the
First Lady was referring to Governors when she said, “People cannot afford
potable water in this country while we have governors,” erroneously suggests
that only State Governors would meet God on the day of judgement. It was in the same breath that she
said, “We should either fasten our seatbelt (meaning tighten our belts) or do
the needful or we will all regret it very soon because, at the rate things are
going, things are getting completely out of hand. The VP (Yemi Osinbajo) is
here, some ministers are here, they are supposed to do justice to the
situation.” How the reporters at the occasion
conveniently forgot the above part of the speech and singled out governors in
passing the message, therefore, remains a mystery. Governors are doing their best to
lift Nigerians out of misery and Nigerians are beginning to witness an
improvement in their standards of living because of the conscious efforts of
State Governors throughout the country. The nation is replete with remarkable
improvements in different facets of public life. For example, public schools in
Kaduna have received a serious boost, aged women in Ekiti State are receiving
stipends from government to keep their bodies and souls together, food security
has taken the front burner in Ebonyi, Lagos and Kebbi States, unqualified
Permanent Secretaries have been uprooted in Adamawa State and youth empowerment
has taken center stage in Ogun. There are similar examples in every single
State of Nigeria, all thanks to the hard work governors are putting into their
jobs. It is therefore incorrect and
mischievous to allude to the warning by Mrs. Aisha Buhari as only directed at
state governors as there is nowhere in the speech where the First Lady referred
directly to the governors. Meanwhile Governors have also lent
their voices to the social media Bill that is currently setting the tone for a
showdown between the public and the National Assembly. The First Lady also made
reference to the Social Media Bill in her speech at the NEC of the NSCIA. At its last meeting this November,
which was chaired by the Governor of Sokoto State and Vice Chairman of the
Nigeria Governors Forum, Rt Hon Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, the governors stated
categorically that, because the Social Media Bill affects everybody, it is
necessary for the National Assembly to consider holding a public hearing on the
Bill before it is passed. Abdulrazaque Bello Barkindo