President Muhammadu Buhari’s
administration has made great improvement in the delivery of infrastructure
such as roads and railways, across the country. This was disclosed by the minister
of state  for works and housing, Engr Abubakar D. Aliyu, at the weekend in
Damaturu, Yobe state, during a grand reception organized by Yobe state
government in his honor and Senate President Ahmad Ibrahim Lawal. “The direct impact of President
Buhari  administration’s policies and programmes have made great
improvement in the infrastructure delivery in terms of provisions of roads,
railways, power supply all of which are evident,” the minister said. He said “President Buhari has done
so much to correct national direction and place it on the path of for a better
future.” The minister said President Buhari
is also making great efforts in reviving the national economy from decline,
stability and growth. In Yobe state, the minister said “we
have specifically benefited from construction and completion of Hadejia-Nauru
road, ongoing construction of Nguru- Gashua-Bayamari Road, Ngamdu-Goniri,
connection of Damaturu to the 33KVA transmission line among others. Engr Ali said the federal government
has recently approved award of contract for the construction of
Damaturu-Kaliyari road. In his remarks, Yobe state Governor
Mai Mala Buni said the minister who is the immediate past deputy governor in
the state “as a colossus of service to the people.” “From his years as a civil servant
to over ten years as a deputy governor, Engr. Abubakar D. Ali has demonstrated
what service and respect and loyalty means. In these exemplary, praiseworthy
values, he found his compass. And his life story will forever be shaped by
them,” he said. Governor Buni said the state
celebrates “Engr. Abubakar D. Ali for what he has achieved so far and for all
the things that he will continue to do on behalf of the peace and progress of
our nation.” “We celebrate him for the example he
sets and the inspiration he provides to so many young people who are mirroring
and projecting themselves in him, and imagining themselves soaring to higher
places if they commit to the values that define his life – loyalty, patience,
and service to the people,” the governor said. Governor Buni decorated the minister
with a sword and the holy Quran as one of the two worthy sons of Yobe state.