The Integrated Data Services Limited, IDSL, a subsidiary of the
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has recorded a significant
increase in its revenue base from N5.5billion
in 2016, N7.6billion in 2017 to N19.033billion in 2018. This was disclosed by the chairman of the company and Chief
Operating officer (COO), Upstream Directorate of the NNPC, Mr. Roland Ewubare,
at the company’s 23rd Annual General Meeting held in Abuja Tuesday. A release by NNPC Acting Group General Manager, Group Public
Affairs Division, Mr. Samson Makoji, said Mr. Ewubare who described the
performance as very impressive, stated that the subsidiary had become
self-reliant and would not require any subvention from the corporate
headquarters anymore. “If anything, IDSL now contributes to the center; we will
continue to give them the needed support to ensure that they sustain this
growth trajectory”, the COO said. On his part, NNPC’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Mr. Umar
Ajiya, commended the company’s management on the performance streak, saying,
“the only way we can grow is when businesses like this deliver positive
results, to enable us collectively overcome our financial challenges’’. He affirmed that NNPC management would give all necessary
support to all its subsidiaries with capacity and prospect to deliver,
including recapitalization where necessary and help them to secure businesses
across the Industry value change to ensure that they grow their output. Managing Director of the Company, Engr. Diepriye Tariah,
attributed the impressive performance of the company to the reorientation of
the staff who, he said, had become more commercially focused and efficient. Integrated Data Services Limited, IDSL is one of the Upstream
subsidiaries of the NNPC. Established in 1988, the company focuses on seismic data
acquisition, processing and reservoir engineering. It also undertakes data
storage and management services. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.