zainabsule@yahoo.com,
www.zainabokino.blogspot.com Six years
after a successful merger of four political parties—ACN, ANPP, CPC and a
faction of APGA, to form the ruling APC; two consecutive presidential victories
and even with the federal government in its kitty, the ruling All Progressives
Congress (APC) has, been unable to build on its successes, unite the nation and
its members for a common purpose. Instead,
the party is so fragmented down the line and incapable of ruling well and
speaking with one voice, such that there are palpable fears it might disintegrate
after President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure expires in 2023. However, instead of
worrying about the uncertain future of their party, chieftains are consumed by
their selfish interest and are preparing to open a new frontier of conflict. The latest
of the chaos that has become second nature to the ruling party is the survival
of its comrade chairman, Adams Aliu Oshiomhole. The booby traps and pot-shots
some members throw at him are capable of further derailing the party. Like a
general, Oshiomhole had fought many battles in the Labour movement and won
almost all. His crowning glory came in a court-ordered victory for him to
become the governor of his home-state of Edo.  Becoming the chairman of
APC was the icing on the cake. The workers’ general is however currently
swimming in hot soup, fighting on all fronts, to keep the party intact, and
himself relevant. Senator
Kabiru Marafa and Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state have since set the
ball rolling for a heated debate about Oshiomhole. The hard-talking and fiery
Senator blamed it all, APC crisis, that is, on the ambition of some serving
governors on the platform of the party. The anger of the Senator, who lost out
in the battle for supremacy between him and ex-governor Abdulaziz Yari, boiled
over when he accused some governors of plotting to replace Oshiomhole with
their lackey, Yari, to spite President Buhari. “The
fight is not against Oshiomole, it is actually against the president. It is
only that they don’t have the guts to say it now, but they will when the time
is ripe. It is evident that the plot to unseat Oshiomhole by a gang of
President Buhari’s adversaries has thickened. This plot is merely aimed at
hijacking the party structure, and hand it over to Yari – who till now is the
arrow head of all the people that harbour bitterness against the president. “The
governors in concert with their cronies within and outside the party are doing
everything possible to hijack the party structure to ensure that the president
and his sympathisers are edged out of the power equation in 2023”, the Senator
said, adding that Yari’s contempt for Buhari is not hidden. He also warned
Buhari not to hand over the party structure to his enemies. It soon
emerged that these enemies, according to another report are  Kayode Fayemi
(Ekiti), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa) and Atiku Bagudu
(Kebbi), based on a revelation by Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state. He
was reported to have hinted the president of the plot by the quartet to shove
Oshiomhole aside and make him (the president) irrelevant in the build-up to
2023, according to The Nation report last week.  Zulum was said to have
told the president at a meeting where all of them were present thus: “Mr
president, you see, all these governors seeking the removal of Oshiomhole are
doing so because they are aspiring to be president in 2023. This is why they
are calling a dog a bad name in order to hang it. Must we destroy the party
because of presidential ambition? I think we should be careful” I cannot
understand why Zulum and Senator Marafa are in a race to protect the
president’s interest when he will not run in 2023, but behind the façade, lurks
the Oshiomhole-must go-grand-scheme and those against, which again is not
entirely strange in a coat-throat polytricking we play. So whoever
succeeds in hijacking the party now, will be a beautiful bride in the next
three years. The
Oshiomhole saga is a major crack that has the capacity to further divide the
party; and yet another indication that managing victory is more difficult than
winning elections. In Nigeria, all you need to win an election is
well-orchestrated propaganda, a rigging strategy and compromised governmental
intuitions. In any case, APC has since proved that it is not a model for credible,
free and fair election. If in doubt, cast your mind back to Osun, Kano and Kogi
governorship elections. Since they
are not markedly different from the much derided PDP, let’s drop all pretensions
and think Nigerian, with a note of caution though. Time was when winning was
the only language understood by the ruling PDP. Today winning election as
opposed to building a legacy party that can stand the test of time is also the
only thing that matters to the APC. If that is the case, why sack Oshiomhole
who has been recording victory after victory for the party even in difficult
circumstances. Is the
ambition of a few more important than the party surviving beyond 2023? The
political turf is a rough terrain, not meant for the lily livered. Love or hate
him, Oshiomhole’s mentality of winning by all means, fair and foul, has
‘helped’ the party, which, as it stands today, cannot afford a weak leadership
at the top. When an
organisation faces an uncertain future and reputational deficit, words such as
rebranding and repackaging come into play, but in politics re-engineering of a
party’s core values could be costly. If in
doubt, ask the PDP. When it fell into bad times before the 2015 election, wailers
called for the head of the then chairman of the party, Bamanga Tukur. Jonathan
heeded the call and brought in Ahmad Muazu. They nicknamed him (Muazu) the game
changer; he did change the game and the music too. It was under him as party
chair that the PDP collapsed after 16 years. Those with the institutional
memory of what became of PDP in 2015, are warning of dire consequences for APC,
if Oshiomhole is shown the way out now. It is
therefore understandable that the party hierarchy are apprehensive. Oshiomhole
may be at daggars’ drawn with his predecessor, Governor Obaseki back home, but
that is not enough a standard, because even ex-president Obasanjo was
originally not reckoned with and even lost election in his home state, Ogun in
1999. In any case, the proverbial adage that a prophet does not have to be
honoured at home may well apply. Although
Oshiomhole has caustic mouth and can take on anybody, he has however used it to
intimidate the opposition to the advantage of his party. He is combative and controversial,
but only people like him can stand the heat in APC’s kitchen where fire rages
24 hours. Oshiomhole’s hard tackles through hard talks is his staying power
against those who tower above him in height and other ramifications. Therefore,
as some APC governors scheme to oust Oshiomhole, they should not forget that a
weakened leadership of the party at the top will make them vulnerable and make
it impossible for them to realise their ambition even.