The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says
its coordinated joint security operations against all forms of insecurity
across the country has yielded tremendous results in the last three months. The Acting Director of Defence
Information, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, stated this while briefing newsmen on
the operational activities of DHQ during the year on Monday in Abuja. Nwachukwu said that the military and
other security agencies had increased the tempo of their operational activities
in the last three months with tremendous results recorded across all
geopolitical zones. The operations, according to him
include Operation Safe Haven in Plateau state, Hadarin Daji in Zamfara state
and its environ and Operation Thunder Strike set up to tackle banditry and
kidnapping along Abuja-Kaduna road and Birnin Gwari general area. Others are Operation Whirl Stroke
initiated to address the herders/farmers and communal clashes in Benue,
Nasarawa and Taraba States as well as Delta Safe set up to curb crude oil
theft, illegal refinery, illegal oil bunkering, kidnapping, piracy, cultism and
militancy in the Niger Delta Region. Nwachukwu said that troops of
Operation Whirl Stroke had conducted over 32 offensive operations against armed
herdsmen, militia gangs and suspected kidnapping camps in the last three
months. He added that the troops destroyed
82 kidnappers’ makeshift camps, arrested over 266 bandits, one illegal arm
manufacturer and three gunrunning kingpins and recovered 217 assorted assault
weapons and 4,201 rounds of ammunition. According to him, effort of
Operation Whirl Stroke also paved the way for 266,000 Internally Displaced
Persons (IDPs) to return to their ancestral homes. “OPWS also stepped up its
non-kinetic activities during the period under review such as peace and
dialogues initiatives with warring communities and construction of roads,
especially the one that links Ugya to Zwere in Benue state,” he said. Under Operation Hadarin Daji in
Zamfara, Nwachukwu disclosed that the troops was able to neutralise several
bandits in fierce combats and arrested 389 others. He added that the rampant cases of
kidnapping had been significantly reduced with 1,048 kidnapped victims rescued
and 48 suspected kidnappers arrested. According to him, troops also
recovered 170 assorted fire arms comprising 58 AK47 rifles, five G3 riffles,
five FN riffles, seven Pump Action Guns and 95 locally fabricated guns. “Others include three Rocket
Propelled Grenade Launcher, 12,803 round of 7.62mm ammunition, 100 rounds of
cartridges and 128 magazines. “The troops also succeeded In
recovering 5,567 rustled cattle, 2,499 sheep, 973 goats, 15 Camels and 14
donkeys. Most of the animals have since been released to the state government
for handover to their owners. “Also, troops of Operation Safe
Haven (OPSH) arrested 779 suspected Cultists, 10 kidnappers and 23 armed
robbers and recovered a total of 21 assorted weapons comprising five AK47, one
FN rifle, seven locally fabricated rifles, eight pistols and one dane gun. “The troops also recovered 15 rounds
of 9 mm ammunition, 63 rounds of 7.62mm ammunition and 3 rounds of cartridges.
Additionally, 666 rustled cattle and 100 sheep were recovered by the troops. “OPSH has been able to employ
non-kinetic operations to amicably resolve over 20 reported cases of farm land
destruction that would have ordinarily led to violent herders/farmers clashes,
thereby averting loss of lives and property. “Troops also held 22 peace dialogues
among warring communities and organised rehabilitation programmes for repentant
cultists to encourage them to renounce cultism,” he said. Defence spokesperson further
disclosed that the troops of Operation Thunder Strike made significant
achievements in the fight against crime and criminalities on Abuja-Kaduna road
and Birnin Gwari area during the period. He said that the troops in a series
of encounters arrested 12 suspected bandits and rescued three kidnap victims as
well as recovered seven AK47 riffles, four locally made guns and nine
cartridges. According to him, troops also
conducted a raid operation on a notorious kidnapper’s enclave known as
Tushen-Kwara, located in Goningora where cultists converge and arrested. Under Operation Delta Safe (OPDS),
Nwachukwu disclosed that the troops averted 64 attempted infractions on Shell
Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) Pipelines. He added that the troops also
arrested 27 suspected militants/pirates, recovered nine AK47 riffles with 755
rounds of 7.62mm ammunition. According to him, OPDS also embarked
on rigorous anti kidnapping operations, resulting in the rescue of over 43
victims, while four kidnappers were arrested. “Troops of OPDS arrested 41
suspected smugglers and 11 boats conveying about 2,130 bags of 50kg rice
suspected to have been smuggled into the country from one of our neighboring
countries. “OPDS also explored the non-kinetic
line of operations as one of the effective means of resolving some emerging security
challenges to the Niger Delta. “OPDS currently maintains Civil
Military Cooperation (CIMIC) desk that has been Instrumental to amicable
resolution of conflicts between host communities and oil companies on issues
related to agitation and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the Niger
Delta. “Within the period under renew, OPDS
resolved about 36 conflicts which would have Impacted negatively on the
operations of oil prospecting companies and the mandate of OPDS,” he said. The defence spokesperson disclosed
that the successes were not without a price, saying that six soldiers, one
aircraftman and 3 policemen paid the supreme price defending the nation. He assured that the armed forces and
security agencies were ready to tackle emerging security challenges to ensure
the safety and security of Nigerians, especially before, during and after the
yuletide. “Members of the public are
encouraged to please sustain their support to the security agencies in their
operations,” he said. (NAN)