Tragically, our
country is headed back to the odious days of General Sani Abacha when dissent
was regarded as criminal, protest as a coup and reason as treason. In the last
few days, patriotic Nigerians including people in this government who
 disagreed with the invasion of our courts by  hooded armed men, and,
resort to self-help by the President Muhammadu Buhari government, have been
ordered to shut up. Countries like the United States and United Kingdom and
organisations like the European Union and Amnesty International who have raised
concern about the violation of basic freedom and refusal by the government to
respect the rule of law, have also been asked to shut their mouths. All these
are a rehearse of the antics of the Abacha regime. The editorials of two
newspapers on December 11,   sounded the alarm that now is the time
for  the government of Buhari to pull back, change direction and save
itself and the country. The VANGUARD  Newspaper editorial was subtle but
made the point that there are international: “witnesses to the double-speak and
the difference  between what the regime preaches and practices” It warned
that: “ The danger in  treading  this path  is that with the
increased sidelining of the rule of law by the government, the country
risks  being isolated, with our development partners treating
Nigeria  as a pariah  nation which was the case  during the
General Sani  Abacha regime.” The editorial also warned that: “…Nigeria
could acquire the reputation  of a rogue state.” The PUNCH editorial
was more   punchy; it lamented the trampling of the rule of  law
into the dust by President Buhari, argued that his actions have brought the
Presidency into disrepute, hence it would no longer accord him the title of the
very high    rank of President  until he retraces his
footsteps. The reaction of the
Buhari Presidency to all these, was not to   be introspective.
Rather, it is shouting down every criticism  as if that would drown 
and wash the truth away. The President’s handlers appear power drunk and in a
stupor; they seem incapable of comprehending   reality. In fact when
people protested against the invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja which
went viral across the globe, regime functionaries told us what we saw was not
reality but a drama staged by the victims of the infamous act. When some
Presidential officials   began to accept the truth, they seemed
incapable of understanding that  even if the government has disdain for
the priests of the court, its agents do not need to  pee in the sacred
altar. The handlers of President Buhari behave like babies who yell at
everything and are only quiet when they are overfed and are asleep. As a disingenuous way
of distancing President Buhari from the invasion of the courts, his handlers
said: “The DSS does not necessarily need the permission of the Presidency in
all cases to carry out its essential responsibilities…This is a matter for the
DSS, acting under its powers.”  They assume that Nigerians are not intelligent
enough to know a king cannot be separated from the atrocities of the palace
guards. Does a king need to hold a gun before you know he pulled the trigger? Nigeria is heavily
indebted. But rather than put funds  to judicious use, money is being
wasted hiring hungry youths, buying them t-shirts and printing placards to
publicly protest in favour of security forces violating the sanctity of the
courts and human rights. Photographs show some of these urchins carrying the
placards upside down, indicating that education has by-passed them. President Buhari has
been the most powerful president since the country returned to civil rule two
decades ago. His nominees know better to acquiesce to all he wants, and his
Ministers were told to report not to him or the Vice President, but to an
unelected officer who is not known to the constitution.  With the change
in the National Assembly (NASS) leadership, he now has full control, so the
Senate President didn’t need to waste his breathe saying the NASS would pass all
what President  Buhari wants. The moves  to
demolish the judiciary and pack its debris  under the structure of the
Presidency   are on-going.  President Buhari had accused the
judiciary of being a clog in the wheel of progress especially in the claimed fight
against corruption. This government had invaded the homes of serving judges and
subjected them to media trial. It has unconstitutionally removed the
 Chief Justice of the Federation and ridiculed the symbol of the
judiciary. Touts have been used to protest and threaten a Senior Advocate of
Nigeria, Femi Falana, for insisting that government obeys the courts. Armed
government agents have invaded the courts and sent sitting judicial officers
scampering for safety right inside the courts. So there is every
sense the President is  given the impression that only he matters.
 The  Head of State holding or controlling all arms of government
reportedly led Louis XIV of  France to proclaim: “L’etat c’est moi” (I am
the state) and Napoleon Bonaparte,  Emperor of France  ( May 1804 to
April 1814) to  boast: “I am France, my will is law.” President Buhari was
military ruler in 1984-85. His colleagues claimed they removed him from office
because his regime  was too rigid and uncompromising in its
 attitudes to issues of national significance; that   it
arrogated to itself absolute knowledge of problems and solutions,
  was incapable of understanding  that a diverse polity like
Nigeria required recognition and appreciation of differences in both cultural
and individual perceptions, and that the situation was made worse by a number
of other government functionaries and organisations, chief among which is the
Nigerian Security Organisation ,NSO, now renamed the DSS. This assessment and
the fact that President Buhari was a military dictator, were well known, but he
said he had become a democrat. He now has to show this in words and deeds. His
handlers also need to assist him in this rather than behave like garrison
commanders. Nigeria has always
been there for Buhari including his education and upkeep since 1962 when he
joined the army at 19. It is time for him to also be there for Nigeria. This is
when the country needs him to reduce tension and return it to the path of
security, rule of law,   constitutionalism   and democracy. Those who in the face
of national crises, keep silent hoping this will make them find favour in the
eyes President  Buhari and help them realize their ambition to be
governors, Senators, Ministers or President in 2023, may be in for a surprise. Those who have ears, let them hear. As for
the Nigerian populace, I urge them to persevere; a people united, can never be
defeated! Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.