The Senate on Tuesday
resolved to invite the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, to appear before
its Committees on Interior, Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters to brief
the upper chamber on the legal and constitutional issues surrounding the
implementation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent visa-on-arrival policy. The decision to invite the
Interior Minister was reached sequel to the consideration of a motion brought
to the floor on the “Urgent need to seek domestication of the African
Continental Free Trade Agreement by an Act of the National Assembly prior to
Implementation of the Proposed Visa On Arrival For Citizens of African
Countries as recently directed by the President of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria and the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS).” Sponsor of the motion,
Senator Olubunmi Adetumbi (APC, Ekiti North) who came under order 42 and 52 of
the Senate rules, said that the Visa-On-Arrival policy is in furtherance of the
African Continental Free Trade Agreement that was signed by Nigeria in July
2019. According to the lawmaker,
Section 12 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as
amended) and the Treaties Act, 1993, requires the National Assembly to enact
legislation for the purpose of giving effect to all treaties after their
ratification by the President and other members of the executive arm of
government. He said that “neither the
Federal Executive Council nor a member of the National Assembly has yet
submitted to the National Assembly any Bill for domestication or to enable
effect to the said African Continental Free Trade Agreement, which is the
necessary prerequisite before its implementation.” He added, “it is premature
and constitutionally and legally impossible for the provisions of the said
agreement to have any effect within the territory of Nigeria.” “The National Assembly has
not delegated its powers to enact legislation for the domestication of
international treaties and agreements as prescribed under Section 12 of the
1999 constitutional  to either the President of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria or to the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) or to any other agency or
official of the Executive arm of government. “The Presidential Executive
Directive and the Nigerian Immigration Service that all Africans could come to
Nigeria without visa from January 2020 is a clear usurpation of legislative
powers of the National Assembly as prescribed under section 12 of the
Constitution,” the lawmaker said. Adetunmbi warned that
Nigeria’s National Security, in view of the current insurgency and terrorist
challenges of Boko Haram, could be jeopardized by the proposed 2020
visa-on-arrival policy of the Nigerian Immigration Service. Senator Jibrin Barau (APC,
Kano North) called on the National Assembly to provide legal backing to the
visa-on-arrival policy through the enactment of required legislation. “All that needs to be done
in terms of legislation should be done before implementing this very
commendable policy”, he said. The lawmaker added that the
visa-on-arrival policy is practiced in developed countries of the world, adding
that same opens a country’s economy to emerging markets and investment
opportunities. Another lawmaker, Senator
Abba Moro (PDP, Benue South), spoke in support of the domestication of the
policy by the National Assembly. “It is necessary for us to
state here that when international agreements are entered into by Nigeria, they
should be properly domesticated to give it a bite of legality and legitimacy. “I think the visa aspect of
this agreement needs to be looked into very closely and critically.” He recalled that years back,
a part of Nigeria in Bakassi was ceded to Cameroon and yet to be legally backed
with a law to that effect by the National Assembly. “Our people out there are in
a quandary as to where they belong,” he said. In his concluding remarks, President
of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, called on the Attorney-General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, to forward all treaties and
agreements entered into by the Federal Government to the National Assembly for
ratification. “There are other treaties
and agreements we have signed as a country, and I think the Attorney-General of
the Federation should forward those to the National Assembly for us to ratify
them appropriately and give them the legal backing that they require”, Lawan
said. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.