By Chimezie Godfrey The Civil Society Legislative
Advocacy Centre, (CISLAC) has urged President Buhari to brief the national
assembly and Nigerians on the extent of spending on the $1billion withdrawn
from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) in 2017 for purchase of intelligence and
platforms to fight Boko Haram as a demonstration of accountability. Auwal Ibrahim Rafsanjani who stated
this on Wednesday in Abuja at a press briefing on the state of defence
accountability infrastructure in Nigeria, disclosed that there are unpublished
defence budgets that are still frequently abused by corrupt officials seeking
benefits from the conflicts with Boko Haram and oil theft in the southern
region. Such officials launder stolen money abroad. He noted that there are gaps that
need to be addressed by the military in areas 
which include wrong deployment of personnel to the ministry of defence,
the dichotomy between MOD and Defence Headquarters (DHQ), lack of transparency
in procurement, posting, welfare, and kits, among others. According to him, CISLAC and its
international partners considering the gamut of challenges facing the security
sector, particularly the issue of corruption therefore called for
accountability and transparency in the sector. He said,”The President should
as a matter of urgency brief the national assembly in particular and the nation
at large on the extent of spending on the $1billion authorized by the Nigerian
governors’  forum withdrawn from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) in 2017,
for their purchase of intelligence and platforms to fight Boko Haram as a
demonstration of accountability. “That the special court for
corruption cases be given speedy passage by the national assembly in the spirit
of the anti-corruption drive of the Buhari regime. “And  given the way and
manner this drive has gone to fumigate the public finance sector of governance,
CSOs believe that the Buhari government should institutionalize the fight
against  the corrupt so that it will survive  his regime when he
finishes his current and final term in 20203. “That the President should as a
matter of fact urgently brief the nation on the extent, status and the
implementation plan of the national defence policy. “Citizens are increasingly
interested in the way and manner they are secured as well as the accountability
infrastructure within the sector.” The Executive Director
stressed that the defence sector is a juicy target for corrupt military leaders
seeking to pad their pockets, adding that  more spending does not
translate to more security. “Without increasing
transparency and oversight of our most secretary sector, we will not succeed in
keeping Nigerian wealth in Nigeria. Corruption in the defence sector has only
expanded. “With oil prices low and
conflict at a high, defence has become the new diesel for Nigerian kleptocrats.
Taking on the defence sector was a bold move by President Buhari. “But efforts to bring the
corrupt to justice are not enough,” he said He pointed out that ambitious
institutional reforms are needed to prevent the next US $15 billion quietly
leaving Nigeria through the back door. He recommended that there should be
reforms which include public launch of the integrity action plan, and
development of defence sector anti-corruption strategy. Others are the extension of public
access to defence and security information and the monitoring of confidential
procurement. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.