The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, (NSCDC) Kaduna Command, says it would deploy no fewer than, 3,000 of its personally in strategic places to protect national assets during Christmas and New Year festivities. The Command Public Relations Officer, ASC Orndiir Terzungwe said in a press statement issued on Monday. Terzungwe said that the State Commandant of the NSCDC, Babangida Dutsima also task residents on Collaboration. “The Command is calling on all residents of the state to complement our efforts by giving us useful information on persons, acts and incidence capable of thwarting peaceful Christmas and New Year celebrations. Dutsima said as part of preparations to ensure hitch-free celebrations, “We have mobilized over 3,000 personnel comprising officers and men in the state to checkmate criminal activities before, during and after the yuletide period. According to him, the personnel who are directed to comb every nooks and crannies of the state are making frantic efforts in combating crime adding that there should be renewed efforts in supporting and confronting the ugly challenges of abduction and banditry. ”We shall not spare any effort to justify the confidence reposed in us in the protection of lives and properties, but we cannot achieve it alone, hence the call for public support. The statement urge law abiding residents to take advantage of the routine patrols which have increased with surveillance in this challenging period in order to rid suspected spots of criminal elements. “We applaud the support of the traditional institution, religious and opinion leaders in the state whose valuable contributions have enabled us arrest criminal suspects in connection with kidnapping, armed banditry and internet fraud. “Criminals must stay clear of their nefarious acts as no efforts will be spared in identifying perpetrators who indulge in acts inimical to the state shall go scot free,” he said. He explained that parents and guardians should warn their children and wards to desist from all unlawful acts, else appropriate sanctions will apply on anyone caught sabotaging security or peace efforts put in place by the government. “In the interest of individual families, we advise that movements of children especially minor should be strictly monitored to safeguard them from being victims of criminals. He urged owners of recreational facilities to take adequate measures to protect users against miscreants who are hell bent to continue to unleash terror on innocent people. He also cautioned against the use of fireworks which may expose residents to dangers. According to him, in order to prevent incidence of fire disasters in the harmattan season, “We urged people to avoid bush burning and exercise caution in the usage of electrical appliances when not in use. “Similarly, those who use firewood for cooking must also properly put it off to avoid waste through inferno,” Terzungwe said. (NAN)