As
part of her humanitarian activities of bringing succor to less privileged persons
in Nigeria, First Lady,  Mrs. Aisha
Muhammadu Buhari has sent a delegation to Benin City, Edo state to present food
items and other nutritious commodities to inpatients and outpatients currently
receiving medical attention at various hospitals in the state. The
team was at Benin City on Friday, 20th December, 2019. Four
hospitals were visited by the Future Assured team including the University of
Benin Teaching Hospital where the Chief Medical Director. Prof. Darlington
Obaseki received and conducted them round the hospital for the distribution. In
what the head of delegation, Zainab Kassim, Special Assistant to the President
in the Office of the First Lady described as a mercy mission, the aim of the
visit was to identify with the patients and to show them love as well as to
give them a sense of belonging. First
Lady of Edo State, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki welcomed the team and commended Mrs.
Buhari for remembering those in need, especially at this yuletide.  She
called for the replication of such mercy missions to spread love and compassion
in the nation. The
team also visited Stella Obasanjo Hospital for a similar gesture and the
Medical Director of the hospital Dr. Ifohan Ebohmwonyi expressed appreciation
for this intervention describing it as bringing hope to the hopeless. At the
Central Hospital Benin where the delegation was received and conducted round by
the Medical Director Dr. Moses Imologomhe, he expressed appreciation for the
gesture on behalf of both the hospital’s management and the patients. Faith
Mediplex was also visited by the team for the same exercise. The Medical
Director, Dr. Temple Oguike was overwhelmed with the gesture describing it as
unprecedented. About
1000 packs of Future Assured items comprising milk, sugar, noodles and other
essential commodities were distributed. Members
of the team included Mrs. Bilkisu Usman Halilu, Madam Rose Audu, Mr. Saidu
Suleiman and Adebisi Olumide-Ajayi.