Barrister
Ekuetafia writes that ‘the fact that Mr. President, a few days ago, has invoked
his right and power under section 18(1) of the NDDC Act 2000, by presenting
budget estimates for the Commission in respect of 2019 and 2020 to the National
Assembly for consideration and approval, does not give any legitimacy to the Dr
Joy Nunieh led interim management committee’ and makes the case for it’s
illegality In recent weeks, there has been a rash of
misconception being peddled in both the print and electronic media about what
next steps Mr President needs to take on matters relating to the Governing  Board of Niger Delta Development Commission. Most of these misconceptions are deliberate
falsehood designed mainly to obfuscate the issues and confuse the non legal
minds. Others are simply orchestrated to cover up and protect selfish
individual or clannish interests without reference or empirical proof of facts. In a number of cases, the positions have been
very incorrect and misleading. This was the case of what we read from the
Punch Newspaper of Saturday 30th of November, 2019 and other social media
platforms  credited to the Chairman of
the House Committee on Niger Delta, Rep Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo who was quoted as
saying that he saw nothing wrong with the 3-man interim management committee of
Senator Akpabio. This is against a 15 members Governing Board  as provided for in section 10(a) of the NDDC
Act 2000. Tunji-Ojo said he was willing to welcome the 3 members of the illegal
interim management committee to come and represent NDDC to defend the 2019 and
2020 NDDC Appropriation Estimates submitted last week by Mr President to both
Chambers of the National Assembly. As if his position is not misleading enough,
he went further to misinform his audience and members of the public that the
provisions of section 171 of the Nigerian Constitution legalize the interim
management committee, an assertion that is most contrary to the true meaning of
that section of the Constitution. For the avoidance of doubt, the bodies or
agencies affected by the provisions of section 171 of the Constitution neither
relate to nor include the NDDC. In order to set the record straight and
for  a better understanding by
stakeholders and members of the general public, the section of the Constitution
under reference is hereby reproduced as follows: 171 – (1) “Power to appoint persons to hold or
act in the offices to which this section applies and to remove persons so
appointed from any such office shall vest in the President. (2) The offices to which this section applies
are, namely – (a) Secretary to the Government of the
Federation; (b) Head of the Service of the Federation; (c) Ambassador, High Commissioner or other
Principal Representative of Nigeria abroad; (d) Permanent Secretary in any Ministry or
Head of any Extra-Ministerial Department of the Government of the Federation
howsoever designated; and (e) any office on the personal staff of the
President…” Contrary to the statement credited to the
House Committee Chairman, Section 171 does not relate to the NDDC. To further compound and exhibit his lack of
deep knowledge of the NDDC Act (even as a member of the National Assembly), and
the Nigerian Constitution, he was quoted as saying that the provisions of the
NDDC Act are inconsistent with those of the Constitution. This is most
unfortunate. There is no section of the NDDC Act that conflicts any
constitutional provisions at all. There is no gainsaying  the fact that some other individuals are
being openly sponsored on live telecast particularly one Arc Nya Etok Ezekiel
who appeared on AIT live show on Saturday night on November 30, 2019. He also
erroneously hinged his defence of the illegal interim management committee on
the same provisions of Section 171 of the Nigerian Constitution 1999. He equally misinformed his audience and
listeners that the section gives Mr President the powers to appoint an Interim
Management Committee for the NDDC simultaneously with his appointment of a new
Board for the Commission. This  assertion
is most incorrect, false and misleading as there is no such provisions in both
legal instruments. Let it be also noted that section 171 of the
Nigerian Constitution  came into force on
May 29, 1999 even before the conception and eventual birth of the Niger Delta
Development Commission in the year 2001. This implies that its provisions were
not framed in anticipation of NDDC or any other body and their operations which
are not referred to in the  section under
reference. Like the provisions of sections 2(2)(a) and
5(3) of the NDDC Act 2000 that requires Senate confirmation of members of the
Commission, subsection (4) of section 171 of the Nigerian Constitution equally
states that “An appointment to the office of Ambassador, High Commissioner,
or other Principal Representative of Nigeria abroad shall not have effect
unless the appointment is confirmed by the Senate. The combined effects of the
above provisions clearly confirm the illegality of the 3-man contraption which
has been  put in place against public
outcry and contrary to every good will and notwithstanding the promptness and
dispatch with which the Senate treated Mr President’s nominees by  properly stamping them with the seal of legitimacy
in accordance with the NDDC Act 2000. The NDDC Act 2000 under section 2(1) states
that ” There is hereby established for the Commission a governing Board
which shall consists of a Chairman, a Managing Director, 2 Executive Directors,
one board member each from the 9 oil producing states of Abia, Akwa Ibom,
Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Imo, Ondo and Rivers,
………………” By this provision and others, the  NDDC Act 
prohibits the 3-man interim management committee from assuming the
responsibility to take over the functions and powers of the Commission. Let it be noted by all Nigerians and Niger
Delta stakeholders that, the fact that Mr. President, a few days ago, has
invoked his right and power under section 18(1) of the NDDC Act 2000, by
presenting budget estimates for the Commission in respect of 2019 and 2020 to
the National Assembly for consideration and approval, does not give any
legitimacy to the Dr Joy Nunieh led interim management committee.  The Interim Management Committee  is not the appropriate authority of the Commission
to appear before any relevant committee of the National Assembly to defend such
budget proposals. For a deeper and proper understanding of the
provisions of the NDDC Act and the intentions of members of the National
Assembly that worked on its bill and passed it even through  a two-thirds majority vote (a few of whom are
still present in this 9th National Assembly), it would be advisable for the
leadership of the House to make copies of the Act available to all members for
better understanding of its content and in appreciation of the efforts of their
predecessors. However, one must commend the leadership of
the Senate for consistently encouraging and appealing to the executive to do
the needful by inaugurating the Board in order to nip in the bud further
controversy. In conclusion, I observe with dismay different
statements and inferences credited to some respected members of the green
chambers of National Assembly insinuating their readiness to  work with the illegal interim management
committee with regard to the NDDC budget proposals presented by Mr President
instead of standing with the Senate in defence of an Act duly passed by the
Parliament which impartiality and integrity they all swore to protect on June
11, 2019 when Mr President   proclaimed
the 9th National Assembly. In my view, allying with the position of the
Senate seems a better and proper option for the Representatives instead of
attempting to dance to discordant tunes of some selfish political gladiators
who appear to be desperate and determined to cover some old footprints. No matter the interest, let every elected
lawmaker remain a lawmaker and every political appointee remain an appointee.
By this is meant to defend, maintain and protect your institution while the
other does same to his or hers own institutions too. David Ekuetafia, Esq. is a Constitutional Lawyer Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing. What a information of un-ambiguity and preserveness
of precious knowledge about unpredicted emotions.