 A human rights and good governance
advocacy initiative – Make A Difference (MAD) has condemned the invasion of
personnel of the Department of State Security ((DSS) for the “gestapo
invasion and desecration of the court” in a bid to re-arrest Omoyele
Sowore who is on bail. In a statement by the Advocacy and
Communication Director of MAD, Lemmy Ughegbe, the initiative also called on the
Chief Justice of Nigeria to rise to the challenge of protecting the sanctity of
the court by ordering judges to boycott all cases instituted by the DSS in all
courts nationwide. Ughegbe said the action of the DSS
in court today surpassed the draconianism of the darkest days of Nigeria’s
military rule. The statement reads: “The
gestapo invasion and    desecration of the court by agents of the
Department of State Security (DSS) is a sad and debasing testament of how
deeply Nigeria and the people have retrogressed into darker ages worse even
than the military era. ” I am gutted that the
sanctuary of the court would be desecrated by those who should strive to
protect it. This is depressing. “And let me hasten to make the
point that this affront is not about Sowore, but about the liberty of citizens
and their constitutional right to dignity and presumed innocence. “When law officers and security
agents act with such barbaric impudence and insufferable arrogance as though
they cannot be called to question for their action, one cannot but agree with
those who say Nigeria is a zoo and we are hyenas, baboons and sundry animals in
it. “I challenge the Chief Justice of Nigeria to order the courts nationwide
to suspend hearings of all cases brought by DSS until the deviant organisation
purges itself of its sins and complies with all orders of courts issued against
it. “Should the CJN be slow and reluctant in taking necessary steps to protect the
temple of justice, he would only be lending more credence to groundswell of
public opinion that he was appointed controversially to oversee the demise of
the bastion of hope in every democracy. “And we await the reaction of President Muhammadu Buhari whose credentials
as a democrat has always been in doubt given his antecedence. The ball is in
his court.”