 (EFCC Press release) A day after former
governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, was convicted and sentenced to 12 years
imprisonment for a N7.65bn fraud by
a Federal High Court in Lagos, the Economic and Financial Crimes
Commission, EFCC secured another victory in its campaign against grand
corruption in public service  as Justice T.G Ringin of a Federal High
Court sitting in Owerri, today December 6,  ordered the final forfeiture
of Dews of Hope Hospital, a N1.5 Billion state-of-the-art 200-bed hospital,
allegedly owned by an aide to a former governor of Imo State and serving senator,
 Rochas Anayo Okorocha. The Commission had on August 22, 2019 secured the
interim forfeiture of the property from a vacation Judge, Justice A. T Mohammed
 of Federal High Court, Port Harcourt. The application for interim
forfeiture was triggered by evidence that the facility may have been acquired
through proceeds of illicit activities, as funds from Government House, Owerri
were traced to the hospital. The Commission’s
investigation revealed that  Dr.
Paschal Obi, former Permanent Secretary  and Principal Secretary to then
Governor Okorocha,  now a serving member of the House of
Representatives, was a signatory to the accounts. However, Obi, like members of the board of the
hospital, vehemently denied ownership of the medical facility. The managing director of
the hospital on invitation, could not also explain how the hospital was
funded. These developments led the Commission to file for the forefeiture of the property on July
25, 2019 under Section
17 of the Advance Fee Fraud,and Other Related
Offences  Act 2006. In granting the request
for the interim forfeiture of the property, the  court ordered the anti-graft agency to publish
the Order in a national newspaper, which was accordingly complied with in the Nation Newspaper of August
30, 2019 and  Leadership Newspaper of September 3,2019 respectively,
 asking interested parties to show cause why the property should not be
forfeited to the federal government within fourteen days from the dates of the
publications. Upon the expiration of
the fourteen day notice and with no one showing interest in the hospital, the
Commission filed for the final forfeiture of the facility. The hospital located at the heart of Owerri
metropolis, had an adjourning staff and doctor’s quarters. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.