The Islamic Movement in Nigeria has
condemned the transfer of Sheikh Zakzaky and his wife from the custody of DSS
to Kaduna central prison today(Thursday), as ordered by Kaduna state high court
when the case came up for further hearing. This was contained in a press
statement released by Ibrahim Musa the president of the Media Forum of the
Islamic Movement to newsmen. “We view any attempt to take Sheikh
Zakzaky and his wife to anywhere other than a hospital that is sufficiently
equipped to handle their medical needs as punishing them further,” according to
the statement. The Movement berated the facilities
at Kaduna central prison where the couple were taken to today, saying: “The
Kaduna prison is dilapidated and is without any medical facility. It was in
that very prison that some survivors of the Zaria genocide of December 2015
died due to lack of medical attention. It can therefore never be a substitute
for appropriately furnished medical facility that can take care of their urgent
medical needs.” Read the press statement in full: *We Are Vehemently Opposed To
Subjecting Sheikh Zakzaky To Further Hardships In Whatever Guise* The Islamic Movement in Nigeria
condemns the wicked antics adopted today in court by the Kaduna state
government through their prosecuting counsels aimed at humiliating our leader,
Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky, and subjecting him to further hardships. These
mischievous moves by the Elrufai government were equally meant to ridicule the
formidable legal team of the Sheikh, who had consistently defeated their team
in all cases thus far, including securing a landmark favourable judgement
ordering the immediate release of the ailing Sheikh and his wife, both of whom
the government is still detaining in contempt of a competent court order. It will be recalled that the Kaduna
state government had chosen a path of dishonour and shame in charging the
Sheikh and his wife for aiding and abetting alleged offences they couldn’t
prove in the same court against hundreds of his supporters. They refused to
diligently pursue the case, but rather use one flimsy excuse or the other to
delay making any progress in the case because of their knowledge that they
don’t have a case against them. When the court granted them medical leave to go
and seek urgent medical attention in India, the government had opposed, trying
to rather put obstacles on their paths. Then they attempted to assassinate the
Sheikh, with the active connivance of NIA, in India. That too was botched with
the Sheikh opting to rather return to Nigeria. Since that return, the Sheikh
and his wife have been largely held incommunicado. No contact with their legal
representatives was given and only a minimal contact with doctors, and even
that only after the Sheikh’s wife took seriously ill in detention. We therefore take a very strong
exception to the misinformation in court today that they were being allowed
unfettered access to their legal representatives. To rub salt to injury, the
prosecuting counsels had requested the court to order the immediate transfer of
these very ill persons to the ill-equipped Kaduna Convict Prison rather than to
a well-equipped medical facility. The Kaduna prison is dilapidated and
is without any medical facility. It was in that very prison that some survivors
of the Zaria genocide of December 2015 died due to lack of medical attention.
It can therefore never be a substitute for appropriately furnished medical
facility that can take care of their urgent medical needs. We view any attempt to take Sheikh
Zakzaky and his wife to anywhere other than a hospital that is sufficiently
equipped to handle their medical needs as punishing them further. Their absence in court again today
is even worrisome, because they were equally absent during the last court
session because of what their counsel, Femi Falana, said at that time, was due
to their deteriorating health conditions. We therefore vehemently condemn any
attempt at further subjecting Sheikh Zakzaky and his wife to more hardship. We
reiterate our unequivocal demand for their immediate and unconditional release.
We will never waiver or succumb, and will leave no stone unturned in our
legitimate demand for his freedom. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.