The new Taraba state Commissioner of
 Information, Bar Danjuma Anyeze Adamu,
is one of the silver linings in the cloudy stratosphere called Taraba government.
He’s like the answer to that  proverbial question: Can any good thing come
out of Nazareth? I say all these because we from the 80s, literally grew up on
him. If you were a lover of good writing and some courageous journalism.., then
the defunct Analyst magazine was the place to go and Danjuma Adamu was one
of its leading lights alongside stormy petrel Balarabe Musa and Bala Usman. So I was joyful in 2008 or so when a
man I considered a veteran, Barrister Anyeze , hunted little me down to Abuja
and asked me to leave my job at leadership newspaper to come edit what he
started called Sunrise newspaper in Jalingo. He told me to consider it a
sacrifice. He said he knew I was probably earning a good sum as Editor of the
Sunday title of leadership. I told him I’ll remain a friend of the paper he was
midwifing at the time. I even did a piece on the new paper and assured him of
my support. He wasn’t impressed. He just wanted me to be the paper’s first
Editor. Two years later, I became media aide
to late Governor Danbaba Suntai who was the brain behind the Sunrise newspaper
initiative. At the launch of the paper, Barrister Anyeze who was its Managing
Consultant at the time, did not fail to mention that I had turned down the
offer to edit the paper. He smiled at the poetic twist in fate that saw me now
supervising the paper from my new office. So together, we began the hardwork of
making the brand a stable one. I eventually became Commissioner and Uncle
Anyeze was still at the paper and we continued to work hard at it. Fast forward and the Sunrise
newspaper suddenly suffered an eclipse. But Anyeze never stopped agonising and
hoping the sun will rise again. I think I was among the first few people the
great man called, Friday, after he was nominated Commissioner. He called to
congratulate me on  my own appointment as
Adviser Media to the honorable minister of power. I, in turn, congratulated
him. He then quoted Shakespeare’s “the boy is the father of the man”!
Such humility, such candour and more is what Adamu brings to his new task. A
man at home with letters, he was my book reviewer- a job he did with the same
incisiveness with which he wrote his own book “Showers of Blessings (a
must read, by the way, if anyone was serious about the history of Taraba). The
new Commissioner’s main target would be to sell the state to the rest of the
world and ensure the overall digitisation project. My prayer is his principal
gives him all the supports he needs to deliver. That’s my only worry because as
far as capacity is concerned, oga Adamu is the man! Bello, is former Commissioner of information, Taraba and contributed this piece from Abuja. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.