The Minister of Information and
Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has announced plans to enlist more of Nigeria’s
cultural sites as UNESCO World Heritage Sites. The Minister stated this during his
visit to the Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove in Osun State, which is one of the
country’s two World Heritage Sites, on Tuesday. He said Nigeria’s quest to have more
sites designated as World Heritage Sites is due to the abundance of sites that qualify
for such listing in the country. Alhaji Mohammed said the country
will leverage on its election into the UNESCO World Heritage Committee last
month to push for the enlistment of more sites. “The essence of this visit,
gentlemen, is to renew national and global attention on this World Heritage
Site, and to formally announce our plan to enlist more sites as World Heritage
Sites. As you are aware, Nigeria has many veritable sites that meet the
requirements of being declared World Heritage Sites. We are taking immediate
steps to first enlist the sites on the Tentative List, after which they can be
inscribed as World Heritage Sites,” he said. The Minister listed the sites being
considered for World Heritage Site designation as the ancient Kano City Walls,
which witnessed the famous Trans Sahara Trade of which Kano was the dominant
force; The Brazilian Baracoon Museum/Point Of No Return in Badagry, Lagos
State, where slaves departed Nigeria to the Americas and the forests in
Oke-Igbo, Ile Oluji Axis of Ondo State, which was the inspiration for D. O.
Fagunwa’s book, ‘Igbo Olodumare’ . Others are the Gashaka-Gumti
National Park, Nigeria’s largest national park which is located in the eastern
provinces of Taraba and Adamawa, close to the border with Cameroon,
and the Ogbunike Caves in Anambra State. Alhaji Mohammed explained that a
World Heritage Site is a landmark or area which is selected by the UNESCO as
having cultural, historical, scientific or other form of significance, and is legally
protected by international treaties. “The World Heritage Site list is
maintained by the international World Heritage Programme administered by the
UNESCO World Heritage Committee, composed of 21 states parties, ” he
said. The Curator and Site Manager of the
Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove, Mr. Adekunle Fatai, who conducted the Minister and
his entourage round the Grove, said one of the criteria used by UNESCO to
enlist the Grove as a World Heritage Site is the fact that it’s a living site,
where cultural activities still take place. In the course of his tour of the
75-hectare Grove, the Minister visited the Osun River; the first palace of the
Ataoja of Osogbo; the hanging bridge constructed by the British in 1936; and
other historic sites. The Minister later paid a courtesy
visit to the Executive Governor of Osun State, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola.