Dr. Obiora Okonkwo,
frontline political leader and Intellectual used his lecture titled “Ndigbo In
Contemporary Nigeria: A Social, Cultural, Political and Economic Reflection” at
the 5th Annual Umunri Colloquium which held at Enugu-Ukwu Civic
Center on December 28 to proffer new solutions to the Igbo leadership question. The Civic Center at
Enugwu-Ukwu in Njikoka local government area of Anambra state witnessed a
different kind of Christmas. As people of the area enjoyed the Christmas
festivities, Uche Nworah, the Director General of Anambra Broadcasting Service
(ABS), was up to a different kind of party. For him, it wasn’t just about
celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ with food and drinks and masquerades et
al. He added something intellectual to the festivities. Nworah dragged who is who
in Enugwu-Ukwu to the 5th Annual Umunri Colloquium where Dr. Obiora
Okonkwo, a frontline political leader in the state had the podium. The tone of the
discourse was set by the traditional ruler of Enugwu-Ukwu and Igwe Umunri, His
Royal Highness, Igwe Ralph Ekpeh, who in his remark lamented the absence of
leadership in Igboland. He stated that the dearth of leaders in Igbo land has
become a source of concern to the generality of the people. According to him,
the time has come for the Igbo to re-examine its leadership. Igwe Ekpeh’s remark was
more like peep into Dr. Okonkwo’s lecture. Speaking on “Ndigbo In Contemporary
Nigeria: A Social, Cultural, Political and Economic Reflection” before an
audience that greeted his logical presentation with a standing ovation, Okonkwo
argued that for the Igbo must work to find the right mix of business and
politics for the sake of its future. He argued that as business leaders, the
Igbo must fashion out a way to allow their leadership of the business and
economic sector to translate into political leadership. He however noted that
for same to happen, the Igbo must re-work its leadership recruitment process to
put an end to leadership by the unprepared and the hungry and enthrone
meritocracy. Okonkwo, who paid glowing tribute to the political leadership of
the Igbo in the first and second republic, noted that the time has come for the
Igbo to return to the drawing board, ask themselves very critical questions and
plot the graph for a new beginning. He noted that unless
this is done, the Igbo will remain rudderless and without a strong voice in the
emerging political equation of Nigeria. “While economic and political
developments come down to leadership, it is also very important that the Igbo
people develop a leadership recruitment process that leaves the voting public
with the option of choosing the best among the best. The best here should be
persons that have overcome personal want; persons who would not see leadership
as an avenue to satisfy personal desire for outlandish lifestyles and previous
deprivations; persons who hit society with new visions and bigger ideas. This
ought to be the starting point”, he stated. Okonkwo said: “The Igbo
must quit lamenting and begin to see the opportunities we have missed as new
opportunities for growth. That was why I instituted a study into the Onitsha
Main market as the entrepreneurial hub of Igbo business. I believe that if we
re-draw our map and change our projections, we will be able, as Ndigbo, to see
the opportunities available to us and use same to change our own narrative by
ourselves. “If the Igbo political
landscape must be re-worked, the Igbo must ensure that Igbo business leads.
Igbo business leads simply by the Igbo supporting their own. Imagine the impact
an Igbo business will make if governors of the region spend part of their
budget to support Igbo business which service they need. In Germany, German
politicians drive German brands. In China, Chinese politicians drive Chinese
brands. In India, Indian politicians drive Indian brands. So doing, their
national brands are improved and their capacities for additional jobs and
expertise are expanded. Therefore, it is only when Igbo businesses lead that
the Igbo will regain the economic power that once made them the darling of all. “When we achieve that,
then, we can use that to swing political power to our advantage. There is no
race that is politically naïve or unimportant. However, you are treated as such
if you are seen not to have any economic power. In the United States, black are
regularly shot on the streets by the Police unlike they do Hispanics, Jews,
Asians because they do not command the same economic powers that Jews,
Hispanics, Asian command. So, the Police know it can kill a black and all that
would happen is street protest. If they do same to Jews, the economy will feel
the impact. “Also, when other
groups negotiate with you politically, they do not do so because it is you.
They do so because of the economic powers that you wield. God has blessed the
Igbo with the power of business vision through which we have become
individually rich. However, Igbo communities have remained poor and without
basic amenities, in spite of individual contributions as give-backs, because
our economic and business acumen have only been able to translate into
individual attainments, not real political power. And this is principally
because we have not been able to fashion out a system through which our
businesses will lead our quest for political power. “For the Igbo to
achieve that therefore, Igbo business must support and grow Igbo business so as
to expand the economic power that would enable the Igbo to regain political power.
It is simply about using economic power to negotiate political power to your
favour even if when you are not the one sitting in the office. The Jews
constitute about 3 percent of Americans, but you cannot be the President of the
Unites States of America without the support of powerful Jewish entrepreneurs
who control the media and other businesses. “Igbo was very well
respected in the first republic, somehow, because of the exploits of Sir
Odumegwu-Ojukwu, who history records as lending Nigeria his personal Rolls
Royce, in which Queen Elizabeth was driven during her maiden trip to Nigeria in
1956. That event ought to shows us the linkage between economic power and
political power. Nigeria’s political leaders of the time went to Sir
Odumegwu-Ojukwu because he had the capacity to provide the sort of car the
queen was to be driven in. Nigeria did not go to Sir Ojukwu because he was an
Igbo man. “Ladies and Gentlemen,
I conclude by telling us all that the narrative on Igboland will begin to
change as soon as the Igbo realize that no one will develop Igboland except the
Igbo people. Therefore, we must take advantage of our place in business to
create the political opportunities that advance the progress and growth of our
homeland. Igbo business and Igbo politics must create the right mix to develop
a leadership recruitment system that would work for the good of the Igbo. “This is what the
Chinese did. In Democracy and
Development: A Prolegomena For Growth a paper I authored in commemoration
of the 80th birthday of Okwadike Chukwuemeka Ezeife, I discussed this reality
that has helped propel China to the top of world economic and political ladder.
“China is a democracy”, I argued adding that “its people sat back and fashioned
out a democratic system that works for them. Several years back, we heard of
China only in negatives. The West was at the forefront of attempting to export
its own brand of democracy to China. But China closed its gates and while the West
bamboozled it with negative media, it worked behind the curtain to push its
development. When eventually China opened its doors to the world, the West
started a new kind of diplomacy -to ask China to slow its growth. Today, China
is the largest economy in the world. It did not achieve that depending on
models exported to it by others. It designed its own system”. “In that paper, I
quoted Zhang Weiwei, Director of China Institute at Fudan University where he
explained that “China’s rise has attracted global attention and many have
focused on China’s economic model behind its rise, which is of course
important. But China’s evolving political change has somehow been ignored by
many. In fact, without much fanfare, China has established a system of
meritocracy or what can be described as ‘selection plus election’, where
competent leaders are selected on the basis of performance and broad support
through a vigorous process of screening, opinion surveys, internal evaluations
and various types of election”. Weiwei said what Chinese leaders did to put
their system right “is much in line with the Confucian tradition of
meritocracy”. “What China has been
able to do, is to develop a leadership recruitment system that promotes merit
across the entire political stratum. This leadership by merit is what now
drives China’s super-fast economic growth”. Okonkwo left so much to
chew at 5th Annual Umunri Colloquium. His paper set a new challenge
for the Igbo people as they work to redefine their leadership question. For the
attendees, it was a different kind of engagement, one which elevated intellectual
discourse at the colloquium, and fulfilled the thirst for deeper intellectual
engagement on the place of the Igbo in contemporary Nigeria.