Borno is the epicenter of the Boko
Haram crisis, and the Lake Chad region is the theatre of the war. No one dares
to venture into the region where Boko Haram elements have been holding major
towns and villages hostage. Reports of attacks on military and Government
convoys, Non-Governmental Organizations’ workers and civilians, with attendant
gory and harrowing experiences come in from the area almost every week. Even
Military Generals pay special attention to the area whenever they confront the
insurgents. New Marte, the headquarters of Marte
Local Government and host of the Chad Basin Development Authority, CBDA, is one
of the towns worst hit by Boko Haram. Since the crisis started, no highly
placed Government official has gone into the Marte axis of the basin. Even as
the host of Federal Government’s largest irrigation project in the sub Saharan
sub region, Marte has remained a no go area. Today, the narrative seems to
be changing as the town may have been liberated from Boko Haram, but the
hangover of years of horror still hangs in the air, and citizens have been
reluctant relocating back to the area. To rekindle their confidence in the
Government as working to restore normalcy and to confirm to them that indeed
Marte and other major towns on the Lake Basin have been liberated, Givernor
Babagana Umara Zulum on Saturday paid an unscheduled visit to New and Old
Marte. The Professor Agricultural
Engineering has been so passionate about the resettlement of citizens back to
their communities which had hitherto been under Boko Haram occupation. He has
never hidden his desire to quickly rebuild the communities as a panacea for
their eventual return. His rustic experiences at the early stage of his life
came into play during the visit. Much as he considers it a routine, it was so
historic and significant to the average citizen, and I could not resist the
temptation to write. When news filtered in that the
Governor personally travelled to Marte by road, to see for himself the level of
devastation caused to structures by the illegal occupants, and make plans to
rebuild it, not many citizens believed the story. It sounded unbelievable
against the backdrop that people alleged that the story of liberated
communities in Bornoi was after all a hoax. But there was Governor Zulum
bestriding the Boko Haram territory like a commander inspecting his conquest. The
only difference between the way Zulum trekked round the once conquered
territory and the way Military commanders who accompanied him moved, was
perhaps his civilian outfit. Adorning a blue top on a pair of jeans, the
Governor moved around with so much candor and courage, while others had to
virtually jog to catch up with him. But the historicity of the visit
lies not in the manner he carried himself, rather in breaking the earlier held
jinx that no Government official can ever bestride that territory as a Nigerian
ground, having been conquered, renamed and restructured, but as a Boko Haram
territory. It also clears the doubt created in the minds of many that the area
is still under occupation. The visit has now paved the way for citizen
dislodged from the Lake Chad flank to prepare to return home. While in Marte, Governor Zulum, in
praising the efforts of the Nigerian Military and the Multi National Joint Task
Force, MNJTF, assured citizens that Marte is now safe, and reconstruction work
will immediately commence on all Government structures destroyed or vandalized
by Boko Haram. He pledged to sustain efforts in ensuring that all other
communities in similar situations as Marte are rebuilt, to facilitate quick
resettlement of all displaced citizens. A Nigerian proverb says, that, “a
lizard which jumps from the top of an iroko tree and survives can praise itself
even if other don’t praise it”. Governor Babagana Umara Zulum’s visit to Marte
and earlier to Damasak, another dreaded area, gives him cause to praise himself
even if others fail to praise him. But the man is so humble, honest and down to
earth. He will not beat his drums. Yet other cannot fail to notice his efforts.
Until his next voyage, permit me to pay a special tribute to Professor Babagana
Umara Zulum and of course to his predecessor, Distinguished Senator Kashim
Shettima, through whose instrumentality God gave us this servant. Inuwa Bwala was a Commissioner for
Home Affairs Information and Culture in Borno State. 已加入收藏夹，时不时的来看看有没有更新博文！ Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.