Former Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Bello Adoke,
arrived Nigeria on  Thursday December 19,
2019 from Dubai, United Arab Emirates into the waiting arm of operatives of the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC at the Nnamdi Azikiwe
International Airport, Abuja. Adoke who fled the country in
2015, has pending criminal charge brought against him by the EFCC for alleged
abuse of office and money laundering in respect of the granting of the Oil
Prospecting License (OPL) 245 to Shell and ENI. It would be recalled that the
government of former President Olusegun Obasanjo revoked the OPL 245, which the
late General Sani Abacha granted Dan Etete, his then Petroleum Minister, and
reassigned it to Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company. Etete’s Malabu Oil and Gas,
however, reclaimed the oil block in 2006 through the court. While Shell
challenged the decision, a ‘fraudulent settlement and resolution’ was
consummated under President Goodluck Jonathan’s government, with Shell and
ENI buying the oil block from Malabu in the sum of $1.1billion. Investigations by the EFCC into
the deal revealed crimes that border on conspiracy, forgery of bank documents,
bribery, corruption and money laundering to the tune of over $1.2 billion
against  Malabu Oil and Gas Limited, Shell Nigeria Ultra Deep (SNUD), Nigeria
Agip Exploration (NAE) and their officials, culminating in criminal charges
against Adoke, Etete and others, which are pending at both the FCT High Court
and the Federal High Court, Abuja The absence of the defendants
slowed the prosecution of the criminal charges against Adoke, Etete, and four
others, forcing the EFCC to obtain an arrest warrant against them on April 17,
2019. Though Justice D. Z. Senchi of
Federal Capital Territory High Court, Jabi, Abuja on Friday, October 25, 2019,
vacated the arrest warrant and ordered the EFCC to serve defendants through
substituted means, the Interpol on November 18, arrested the former minister in
Dubai. His return to Nigeria clears the
way for him to answer to the charges against him. Newsdiaryonline reports that Adoke has repeatedly said he was innocent of the allegations and further claimed that the charges against him were politically motivated. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.