A call has been made for
President  President Muhammadu Buhari to
ensure freedom of  Leah Sharibu from  Boko Haram insurgents as a Christmas gift to
the Christian community in Nigeria. The appeal  was made by   Northern
States Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF) in Kaduna. Chairman of NOSCEF of  Mr. Ejoga Inalegwu who made this plea in a
Christmas message on Sunday, believes the federal government has the
“wherewithal and the competency” to ensure freedom for the School girl in Boko
Haram captivity. Sharibu was among the 110 students of
Yobe state,  abducted by the  terrorists on February 19, 2018. Reports said five of the girls died,
while 104 were released by the insurgents on March 21, 2018, in the aftermath
of  negotiations with the federal government. Boko Haram however failed to
release Sharibu  for refusing to  denounce her Christian faith . According to, Ejoga  the release of the Leah  would amount to the  most cherished Christmas gift for Christians
in Nigeria. “We plead with the President,
Muhammadu Buhari, to give the Christian community of this great nation, the
Christmas gift by ensuring the release of our dear child Leah Sharibu from the
brutal custody of the Boko Haram. “We believe the government has the
wherewithal and competency to effect her release” Ejoga said. Speaking on the state of the
nation,  the NOCEF chairman said “Our
hearts bleed for our nation, a nation that has abandoned God and every godly value. “We call evil good and good evil, we
congratulate those who steal the mandate of the people by the barrel of the gun
and intimidation, we have forgotten the values of the leaders of the 
Yar’adua, fame who could look at victory to its face and say ‘the means that
brought me to power is flawed’.  Those from whom we expect a higher
standard, are the first to congratulate a stolen mandate. “Every Local Government election is
now won 100 per cent  by the party in power in the state. “Those who are advocating that INEC
takes over Local Government elections will now be chewing their words because
with INEC, we see elections stolen by guns and lives lost”. He called  on men and women of
conscience to cry out loud so that the situation does not deteriorate
further. He added that , “dishonesty in
government  escalates crime and criminality. Let the spirit of Christmas
revive our ways to ways of godliness. “Let us pray that God will bring
hope and righteousness to the state of despair and hopelessness in the
nation. “May the Lord flush out
unrighteousness of state organs, so that the rich (the wise men) and the poor
(the homeless Shepherds) will have access to the blessings of God to our Nation
Nigeria. “Goodness Thomas scored 302 in JAMB and 278 in post JAMB, with 6 A1s, but could
not get the course of her choice, because she is a Christian. “Let the nation cry out against this
injustice. The injustice/discrimination that Christians suffer as a way of
life, in the north in all spheres, even Christians from educationally
disadvantaged states of Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina and other Northern states are
denied their state quota admission to read courses of their choice, in spite of
their performance, because of their faith. “Soon, having taken over the headship of the institutions that regulate higher
education, they will start targeting the private universities, to frustrate
them and will even make “under cover laws”, that even our brethren in the
National Assembly will be stampeded to support under the guise of party loyalty
e.t.c. “But no Herod (no man) can stop God from blessing those whom He would bless. He
who would not spare His son, Jesus Christ, to die for us, will  give us
all things.”