The Niger Delta People’s Liberation
Movement, has said the Niger Delta region has seen so much of confusion since
the assumption in office of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator
Godswill Akpabio. Reacting to a call by six civil
society organisations for the withdrawal of the presidential nominees into the
board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, the group said it was
clear that the Minister has other motives other than forensic audit in mind for
wanting the Interim Management Committee, IMC, to “assume much more
permanent status than the legally constituted board.” It cited the case of the IMC’s plan
to carry out projects as a confirmation of the hidden motive of the Minister. In a statement signed by Oghenekaro
Joseph and Belema Diri, the group said the Minister’s hidden motives are
clearly seen by discerning Niger Deltans. “We are joining the Hon.
Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and his media team to celebrate 100 days of confusion
in the region. The region has seen more confusion in the 100 days than in all
the years the ministry and the NDDC have been in existence,” the statement
said. The statement further said:
“The Minister has hidden motives behind the IMC. If it was just for
forensic audit, the IMC would not be having an Executive Director, Project who
is even a Medical Doctor with the intent to award contracts or an Executive
Director, Finance and Administration with plans to carry out financial
transactions. It could just have been a committee of technocrats, not
politicians, with no office, but with unfettered access to the commission. The
mere fact that Minister Akpabio is carrying out as if he is the Managing
Director of NDDC leaves much to be desired. He was appointed Minister of the
Niger Delta and not that of NDDC. He should leave NDDC for the constituted
board to run it.” The group said there has always been
audits in the country, noting that the minister is making too much noise about
an exercise that should ordinarily be a routine. “If he doesn’t know, he should ask
the Auditor General of the federation. Does a Minister or Permanent Secretary
leave office for the auditors to be seen as fair. Do they appoint IMC for
Ministries, Departments and Agencies just because they are to be audited? How
will the new board interfere in the work of the forensic auditors and how will
the IMC help the auditors?” The group called on President
Muhammadu Buhari to save the region more embarrassment by reposting the
Minister, saying the Minister is not the best person to carry out any audit
related duties. “He was one of the Governors of
the region in the 16 years of the PDP sleaze and has his hands filled from the
public till. He cannot say he had no hand in the NDDC. Our investigation shows
that apart from nominating people to serve on the board of the commission at
various times, including nominating his brother, one Jeremiah Akpabio to serve
as Special Assistant to a Managing Director, the minister has been beneficiary
of several NDDC contracts through fronts and cannot go to the audit with the
stained hands.” The group said the idea behind the
audit is perfect and commended President Buhari for it, but said “Senator
Akpabio, however, is not the right man to supervise the audit. For someone who
left several uncompleted projects, most of which he had collected all the
monies meant for the projects to sound like a saint now is a ploy to use the
NDDC to continue the life of sleaze which he is known for.” The group also queried the credentials of the members of the IMC, noting that the Minister has clearly downgraded standards in the commission by appointing a political medical doctor as EDP.” Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.