KNOWLEDGE ILLUMINES! …it is vital to seek it and embrace it
heartily! Starting a New diet plan can be confusing
if you have no prior nutrition knowledge, which is why it is essential to learn
and understand at least the basics of how best you can harness nutrients from
foods in order to achieve most favourable results. Whether it is for weight
lost, improve health, and maintain health or any desired effect… This concept of benefitting maximally from
foods consumed is otherwise known as food combining. Food combining is the idea
that certain food work great together and others may simply be a disaster when
combined together.  Food combining is a
broad topic; however, I will focus on fruit combining in this piece. Combining fruit to achieve better
digestion, absorption and assimilation: Fruits are one food group we all love to
eat, perhaps too much sometimes. Many of us believe that since fruits are
healthy we can enjoy them in assortment and variety without caution or effect.
Well, that notion is misleading, according to food combining principle, not all
fruits  can be combined, much less
randomly like me do in salads, smoothies or even juices without  effect… 
Apparently, some fruits work great together and others don’t meaning
some fruits maybe be best not combined while others are best consumed by
itself, alone. In consideration to the differences in fruits, fruits have been
categorized in distinct categories. Food combining science suggest that when
fruits are taken in their individual grouping or when paired from a biochemical
compatibility  standpoint they offer more
benefits than mixing fruits across board like we do in our fruit salad recipes,
smoothies or even juices. Fruit classification /combining Acid fruits Semi-acid fruits Sweat fruits. Melons Acid fruits: include all citrus fruits such
as pineapple, cashew-apple, lemon, lime, grapes, grapefruits, tomatoes
strawberries etc. Acid fruits do not combine well with sweat fruits because of
their acidic nature. However, they mix very well with sub-acid group of fruits
such as apples, pawpaw, English-pear, guava, etc. They are also great with
leafy vegetables and nuts. Although they go well with vegetables when mixed
together, but never eat these fruits after eating vegetables to avoid acid
fermentation In the stomach which produces gas, this situation is usually
discomforting and sometimes even painful Sub-Acid Fruits: sub-acid fruits includes
apples, English  pear, mango, apricot,
plums, pawpaw, peaches, etc.sub acid fruits are versatile, and they go well
with both acid and sweat fruits. They are the neutral group of fruits. However,
fruits that are similar in texture always work best. For example apple and
English pear, mango and plums, etc. Sweat Fruits:  sweat fruits include Banana, dates, and
others. Sweat fruits are very low in water content and because they are sweat
they are usually high in calories. Sweat fruits do not mix well with acid
fruits because when they are mixed together, they are very different in water
content (it is kind of like oil and vinegar) the combination could influence
indigestion, gas, acid reflux, or they can create acidic fermentation in your
stomach all of which offers no benefits. Melons: 
Lists of melons include watermelon, cantaloupe, honey dew, etc.  Melons contain more water than other fruits
and digest quicker. Mixing Melons with other fruits slows the digestive nature
and processes of the melon which cause it to ferment in the stomach. Melons do
not mix with anything, not even with its kind. Melons are a strict stand alone
fruit. For best result eat each type of lemon separately, also ensure to space
well before you consume another food before or after consuming melon because
when you introduce another food immediately after consuming lemon you may have
set yourself up to experience the effects of fermented or petrified melon in the
stomach.. Avocados also deserve category of their
own. I like to call them exotic fruit, avocado is truly a unique fruit; unlike
any other fruit avocadoes contain huge amounts of healthy fats. It is also
neutral to a large extent as it combines well with most fruits especially acid
fruits except for sweat fruits such Bananas. Combine your fruits right, encourage mono
fruit consumptions, you can eat each group at a certain time of the day. Since
acid fruits are said to be good on an empty stomach, have them in the mornings.
Sub-acids fruits mixed with salads and work great in smoothies as well. Your
sweat fruits as your afternoon energy boost. You can also use some of the dry
variants as sweeteners in cereal, except for Banana, as banana and cereal is
said to be a poor combination. Poor combinations usually affect digestion, absorption
and assimilation. It is advised to eat at least 5 different
fruits every day; keep your fruit consumption to three moderate servings per
day. Keep In mind that dry fruit usually packs more calorie so stick with fresh
options especially if you have special dietary needs that require less sugar. We all have a responsibility to make wise
and informed choices each day about our health. These tips are your ally to a
healthy lifestyle so generously incorporate them in your daily routine! For questions on culinary/ grocery tips,
diet-plans please drop me a message. Email: sussannajacobsussanna@gmail.com,
newleeznlife@yahoo.ca Facebook: sussanna Ngodoo .E. Jacob Instergram: ngodoo.s.jacob Whatsapp: 07035990863 Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.