 The arrest and re-arrest of the
activist and publisher of Sahara reporters an online Newspaper, Mr. Sowore has
continued to generate a lot of controversial comments from Nigerians and even
international communities. Sowore and his friend Bakare were in Department of
State Security (DSS) custody for over 150 day on the alleged treason charges.
The presidency is accusing him of mobilizing people against the administration
of President Muhammadu Buhari, other charges include alliance with
proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and planned to mislead public to
violently change the government through `#RevolutionNow` protest. The Sowore`s case has since taken
different dimension which seems there may be hidden agenda by the present
administration to silence the critics and making the civic space uncomfortable
for the upcoming young ones. The pro democrats will surely agree with me that
freedom of expression is the only way to enjoy genuine democracy. Though,
Nigerian politicians have been paying lips service on the concept of democracy
and its entrenchment, in reality it has remained hoax. Progressive democracies do not
disregard court orders or turning their heads against the application of the
rule of law. One of the cardinal point of constitutional democracy is the
respect of the freedom of speech and the total adherence to constitution. It
seems the present administration has their own way of defining democracy which
is more authoritative. It is not a surprise for Nigerians to witness the
muzzling or brazing rape of this cardinals of democracy under the watch of
so-called democrats. The December 6 melodrama that led
the DSS to invade court in commando style is a national disgrace. Why would the
DSS disrupt court proceeding? Despite the fact that the law simply asserts
that- no arrest can be effected in a courtroom, it is a sanctuary of some sort
because the civil process act defines the precinct of the court as anywhere
between the gate to the courtroom. Instead for our president or minister of
justice to condemn the act and quickly call them to order, he keeps silent.
  Though the Presidency and DSS denied the incidence at the first place
but it later apologized to the judge and also the Sowore`s lawyer, Femi Falana
for their unprofessional conduct. Recalled, two competent courts ruled
or demanded that DSS should release Sowore but they confidently disobeyed the
order. Why would DSS refuse to obey court order? If they can be granted an
access to suspect or even allowed to keep suspect in their custody, why should
they act differently when the same court orders the release of the suspect? Whosoever is advising the
presidency or Department of State Security (DSS) to disregard court orders and
break the laws of the land by neglecting the rule of law is the true enemy of
our democracy. Agreed, they have right to deny anyone his freedom especially in
a situation where such freedom will be an issue to public disorder, security or
immorality but the Sowore`s case can be easily resolved through obeying the
court orders by both parties. It will be good for DSS to allow court to decide
on the case or pass their judgment than continue detaining him in their
custody. This unjustifiable treatment meted on sowore or disobeying of court
order will create sympathy for the victims and make our democracy a laughing stock
in the comity of nations Regardless of the situation,
President Muhammadu Buhari is one of the highly respected African leader not
only in Nigeria but across the globe. He shouldn’t allow his image to be
tarnished because of the interest of the few. The president has said it in
various fora that he will uphold the rule of law. The doctrine of separation of
power should be properly adhered to by the three arms of government. We are not
in military junta in which laws are not obeyed. We are in constitutional
democracy. The Department of Security Service
(DSS) should be called to order and respect the rulings of the court. Nigeria
is above everyone, and the country is indeed need of peaceful coexistence and
freedom not agitations and unnecessary chaos! Idris Mohammed is a Human Right Defender and Public Commentator Wrote from
Abuja. He tweets @ Idris4P