While there may be lull in other sectors of the economy, the telecoms
sector has remained consistent, recording greater feats courtesy of regulatory
excellence of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) under the leadership
of Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta. For the Commission, 2019 has been particularly
eventful. The Nigerian Communications
Commission (NCC), in 2019, carried out a number of regulatory activities
towards ensuring increased access to telecoms services,  increased
consumer education and protection, boosting security of lives and property,
sanitising the industry while also driving other initiatives aimed at boosting
innovation in the telecoms sector and continuously galvanising the country’s
overall economic growth. Impressive
growth statistics, despite challenges Generally, despite challenges
confronting the telecoms sector, the sector was able to recording impressive
statistics during the year, courtesy of smart and effective regulatory role of
the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), resulting in greener outlook from
January 2019 till date. Telecoms continues to be a
major contributor to the nation’s economy, according to data from the National
Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Telecom’s contribution to national gross domestic
product (GDP) for the 1st Quarter and 2nd Quarter of 2019 stood at 10.11
percent and 11.39 percent respectively.  These contrast with 9.19 percent
and 10.43 percent contribution in the 1st Quarter and 2nd Quarter of 2018
respectively. Broadly speaking, general Information and Communication Technology
(ICT) contribution to GDP has increased to 13.8 percent currently. Active mobile voice
subscribers increased from 174,012,136 in January, 2019 to 180,386,316 at the
end of October, 2019 (which is the latest data in the industry, as posted on
the NCC official website). Teledensity has also increased to 94.50 percent
while internet subscribers increased from 114,306,598 to 123,559,596 during the
period under review. Upward
trajectory of broadband penetration Broadband penetration
increased from 32.34 percent (indicating 61,732,130 Nigerians on 3G and 4G
networks) to 37.87% (indicating 72,289,389 on 3G and 4G networks) between
January and October, 2019. Various efforts of the Commission in licensing new
spectrum bands, re-farming certain frequency bands and driving initiatives for
increased broadband infrastructure in the country have also been responsible
for this feats. With increase in broadband penetration
being recorded on a monthly basis, stakeholders have said that the NCC is well
positioned and must be supported by the government through relevant policies to
drive the actualisation of the country’s digital economy policy strategy, going
forward. This has become necessary since, as usual, the Commission is expected
to take the driver’s seat in the actualisation of the new broadband target
being worked on by the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy. 
Just recently, the new National Broadband Plan Committee was inaugurated to
come up with the new broadband target for 2020-2025. With regards to the uptake of
Mobile Number Portability (MNP), 110, 500 numbers were ported between January,
2019 and October, 2019, as against 71, 723 subscribers who ported their lines
between the same 10-month period in 2018. This increase in porting activities in
2019 is attributable to increased public education and awareness by the
Commission’s head office and its zonal offices, as they intensified awareness
on the availability and usage of MNP across geo-political zones. Stepping
up consumer complaints resolution management Also, in terms of consumer
complaints management, the Commission received a total of 19,841 complaints from
telecoms consumers across its various consumer complaints channels. Of these,
the NCC successfully resolved 17,851, representing a 90 percent success rate of
consumer complaints resolution during the period under review. Specifically, a
total of 18, 717 complaints were lodged through the NCC Contact Centre by the
customers to the Commission with a larger percentage satisfactorily solved.
Little wonder, therefore, that based on their satisfaction with all these
facilities provided for them to resolve their issues, a total of 19,345
satisfied consumers sent notes of commendation/appreciation to the Commission
through calls made to the NCC Contact Centre and e-mails received via the NCC Consumer
Portal. All of these were to appreciate the various regulatory interventions
that helped in satisfactorily resolving their telecoms service-related issues. Also in 2019, exposure to unsolicited text messages by the consumers declined
drastically through the popularisation by the Commission and the resultant activation
of the Do-Not-Disturb (DND) Short Code 2442 facility by the subscribers.
Though, a voluntary service, a total of 22,356, 919 subscribers have now
activated the DND service either fully or partially. Aside all these impressive
statistics, the Commission, in 2019, focused more on some key initiatives that
have put the industry and the economy on a growth trajectory. Telcos’
listing on NSE and boost in capital market operation Year 2019 will go down in
history as a memorable one when the yearnings of most Nigerians to have increased
stakes in the telecoms sector got an unprecedented boost through smart
regulatory activities NCC. Indeed, one of the remarkable achievements of the
NCC in 2019 which has not only impacted the industry but also bolstered the
entire economy was the Commission’s regulatory efforts in seeing to fruition,
the listing of MTN and Airtel Africa on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Speaking at a forum in Abuja,
the Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said “The MTN listing
has helped to translate into action, an important objective of the Commission,
which is to promote local investment and ownership in the telecom sector. Also,
with MTN’s shares available in the capital market, it is expected that
Nigerians will buy shares and by purchasing the shares of MTN, they will be financially
empowered and be socially transformed.” According to Danbatta, “One of
the benefits of MTN listing and those of other operators to follow, therefore,
is that the telco would be able to raise more capital for network expansion
which, in turn, will bring about an improvement in the quality of service (QoS)
and quality of experience (QoE) for the consumers of telecoms services, which
is also a cardinal function of the Commission.” Undoubtedly, despite the initial
volatility seen in the Nigerian capital market earlier in 2019, the listing of
the biggest telecommunication company, MTN Nigeria and Airtel Africa, has
helped in increasingly making the market capitalisation bullish. Today, capital
market regulator and shareholder bodies have commended the effort of the NCC in
making the capital market more resilient through facilitating the listing of
MTN, a move that was fallout of the conditions the telecom regulator gave MTN
following the telco’s violation of Subscriber Identification Module (SIM)
registration rule in the telecommunications sector. Pioneering
5G trial in W/Africa In 2019, the Nigerian
Communications Commission (NCC), in its proactive regulatory approach,
pioneered the trial of Fifth Generation (5G) technology in Nigeria, becoming
the first telecoms regulator in the West Africa to begin such historic trial
towards unleashing greater digital revolution in the country. Consequently, 5G
trials have been conducted in Abuja, Calabar and Lagos and the coming years can
only be more exciting for Nigerians, who will, through 5G network deployment,
have access to faster broadband speed to carry out personal and official activities.
This will bring about more efficiency, effectiveness and growth. Boosting
FG’s push for increased security via ECC project One of the flagship projects
which the Commission was commended for in 2019 was the resolve of the
Danbatta-lead NCC leadership to pay greater attention to the implementation of
the Emergency Communications Centre (ECC) project. During the year under
review, the NCC has activated and increased the number of operational ECC to 17
states of the Federation and the Federal Capital (FCT), Abuja – 18 ECC in all.
The list includes: the FCT, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun,
Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross Rivers, Imo, Anambra, Enugu and
Adamawa. Subsequently, the commissioning of the National Emergency Toll-Free Number
“112” and the Katsina State
Emergency Communication Centre for the North West Zone was successfully carried
out on September 23, 2019. Necessary preparations and arrangements are,
however, ongoing towards ensuring successful launch/commissioning of such centres,
including publicity and enlightenment in the remaining five (5) geopolitical
zones and the FCT. In recognition of this
important role, the NCC’s Danbatta was recognised as Nigeria’s Goodwill
Ambassador in Security and Emergency Management while NCC, as a corporate body,
was conferred with the award of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Security
and Emergency Management.  They received the awards earlier in December at
the maiden Security and Emergency Management Awards hosted by the Emergency
Digest, a publication of Image Merchants Promotion Limited, in conjunction with
the Centre for Crisis Communication. Closely linked to the NCC’s
efforts in implementing the ECC Project to boost Federal Government’s drive to
promote security of lives and property, was also the Commission’s ongoing
efforts towards sanitising the country’s SIM database for increased security in
the country. In 2019, over 24 million invalidly-registered subscriber records
were scrubbed (deduplicated) by the Commission via Automated Fingerprint
Identification System (AFIS) in fulfilment of the mandate to establish a
credible database of telephone subscribers. Licensing of 10 VAS aggregators Following the development of its Value-Added Service (VAS) Aggregator
Framework for the telecoms Value-Added Service (VAS) segment, the NCC, in 2019,
awarded the VAS Aggregator licenses to 10 companies to provide aggregator
services. This will boost the competitiveness of the telecoms VAS segment of
the telecommunications industry. It is also to unlock the huge potential of the
telecoms VAS market, which has been estimated to be worth $500 million in the
next few years. The licensees are I-Cell Multimedia Limited, Nina-Jojer
Limited, 21st Century Technologies Limited, Nitroswitch Limited, HML
Consulting Limited, Iykejordan Limited, Cognys Systems Limited, Perpetual Communications
Limited, Mobile Intelligence Limited and Aerandir Technologies Nigeria Limited. Regularising
commercial satellite operations for increased access In line with the relevant
provisions of the Nigerian Communications Act (NAC), 2003, the NCC, in 2019,
regularised the activities of all satellite operators including Space station
operators as well as Earth Station operators; as well as issued Landing permits
to Space Stations beaming signals over Nigerian territory. To this end, the
NCC, in June, 2019, granted its first landing right permit (licence for
satellite internet) to Avanti Communications Groups Plc, a United Kingdom-based
satellite operator, for hosting of its HYLAS 4 Satellite specie segment over
Nigerian territory. The landing permit, which is the first of its kind in
satellite communications in Nigeria, implies authorisation that allows
operators to beam its signal over the territorial integrity of a country. Chief Regulatory Officer of
Avanti, Ann Vandenbroucke, stated during the granting of the permit by the
Commission that the deployment of the satellite would enable immediate
broadband access and faster internet services to Nigerians, saying the permit
was a big step forward for Nigeria and its economy. The company further stated
that it was “attracted to invest in Nigeria because of the stable and
predictable regulatory environment.” Improving
quality of service In line with its continuous
commitment to ensuring that telecoms operators deliver consistently improved
QoS to their over 179 million subscribers, the NCC, in the course of 2019,
embarked on a series of initiatives that have relatively helped in boosting the
quality of service delivery across mobile networks. Through continuous
monitoring of operators’ compliance with the Key Performance Indicator (KPS) on
Quality of service (QOS) on a state-by-state level, as against measuring
operators’ compliance on a national average basis, the regulator helped to
boost QoS delivery in this regards. Increased
consumer protection Stepping up measures with
respect of consumer complaints resolution was one initiative the Commission
took very seriously in 2019. For instance, the Commission revised its Consumer
Complaints & Service Level Agreement (CC/SLA) to improve consumer complaint
management and resolution in a more promptly manner by the service providers.
Similar efforts championed by the Danbatta-led NCC in the course of 2019 towards
addressing consumer issues, was the inauguration of a multi-sectoral committee
to combat the issue of financial frauds using telecoms or digital platforms. More
importantly, the thematic direction of the NCC’s Open Forum of the Industry Consumer
Advisory Forum (ICAF) for the of  fourth
quarter of 2019 was targeted at addressing areas of protection for the
consumers with respect to financial frauds committed by criminals using
telecoms platforms. Promoting
ICT Innovations for economic growth In keeping with its ongoing
tradition of driving technology innovations through funding relevant researches
in tertiary institutions, the Commission, in May 2019, announced N40 million
endowment funds for Bayero University, Kano (BUK) and the Federal University of
Technology, Owerri (FUTO) The fund will be utilized by the institutions to
drive for innovation, research and development in the digital space with an
ongoing commitment to expand the list of benefiting institutions. A month after, precisely in
June, the Commission, again, demonstrated its determination to facilitating
research and innovation in the telecom industry in Nigeria by presenting the
sum of N65 million to eleven (11) universities in Nigeria for driving innovation,
research and development. Through the funding, the benefitting tertiary
institutions are expected to deliver research results and prototypes that are
implementable, commercially-viable and capable of engendering innovation in
different sectors of the economy.  The NCC continues to support young
innovators by showcasing their innovations at global telecoms fora such as the
International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Telecoms World. Organising local
competition for innovators to competitively encourage them to develop locally-relevant
tech innovations that can help grow the economy was part of the NCC’s efforts
at promoting ICT innovations. Remarkable
decrease in Call Masking activities Following the enforcement by
the Commission for telcos to deploy technology solution across their networks,
cases of call-masking or call refiling has reduced drastically. Call masking is
when inbound international calls terminate in Nigeria as local number. The
Commission quickly noticed that this raises security concerns, competition
issue and portends negative economic implications.  The NCC has, since, swung
into action; as series of regulatory measures have been taken towards curbing
the menace of call masking.  They include strict compliance monitoring and
enforcement by the Commission; imposition of appropriate sanctions by the
Commission on licensees involved in call refiling and masking activities; and
suspension of numbering plans of some perpetrators and withdrawal of all their
inactive numbering plans. According to the Executive
Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Danbatta, other measures taken in this regard
include the continuous sensitisation of consumers and other industry
stakeholders on the dangers of call masking, which is still ongoing; the
development and institution of new reporting requirements on interconnecting
licensees that makes it easy and seamless to quickly identify perpetrators of
call masking. SO far, the technology solutions deployed by the telecoms
companies is now helping to monitor, report, apprehend and block SIMs being
used for SIM boxing activities and prevent SIM lines from being used for call
masking activities. Through the deployment of the technology solutions and
continuous monitoring by the Commission for compliance throughout 2019, cases
and consumer relating to call-masking has come to zilch. Putting
NCC’s Head Office Annex in Mbora, Abuja to use Among several other internal
initiatives embarked upon by the Commission to engender operational efficiency
as telecoms regulator in 2019 was the inauguration of a five-storey building
constructed by Commission, essentially meant to complement its Maitama
Headquarters Building. Located at 1253 Cadastral Zone, Mbora District, Abuja,
the project had been abandoned for a long period for lack of funds to complete
the massive structure. Today, besides providing
nearly a hundred-room office accommodation, it was built with facilities such as
swimming pool, lawn tennis courts, underground car parks and a 600-seater
auditorium for conferences and seminars. No fewer than five departments of the
Commission have since moved into the new building now called NCC Head Office
Annex, using the world-class facilities and this has improved their operational
efficiency. The move has also helped to significantly decongest the Head Office
Building of the Commission located at Maitama District, Abuja for effective
regulatory operations. More importantly, the continuous hosting of most of the
Commission’s activities inside the 600-seater auditorium architecturally
situated within the new building is now resulting in appreciable cost-saving for
the Commission. This move, thus, gives concrete expression to the Commission’s
compliance with the cost-cutting measures of the Federal Government as directed
by the supervising ministry.