The Federal Government has
reaffirmed its commitment to the fight against impunity, provide recourse to
justice for victims and punishment for perpetrators of the crimes. Attorney-General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN made this known on Monday while
presenting Nigeria’s statement during the opening of the five-day 18th session
of the assembly of state parties to the Rome Statute of the International
Criminal Court (ICC), the Hague, the Netherlands. This is contained in a statement
issued by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, the Special Assistant on Media and Public
Relations Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of
Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN and made available to newsmen on Tuesday 3rd
December, 2019. Malami said Nigeria is also
committed to criminalization of starvation as a weapon of war crime under the
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. While recalling that the idea of
criminalization of starvation as a weapon of war crime was mooted by
Switzerland, Malami emphasized the Nigeria’s calls on all State Parties to
jointly support the initiative. The Attorney General of the
Federation also decried the numerous challenges the International Criminal
Court has been facing including increasing attacks against the ICC and its
officials, possibilities of further withdrawals from the Rome Statute,
weakening of the Rome Statute system and its support across the globe, retreat
in multilateral engagement and rising tides of hostility, discrimination, and
repression around the world. “It is the desire of Nigeria to see
ICC overcome all its present challenges and become a global, independent and
impartial Court with capability to rid the world of impunity the type that
characterized World War one and two,” the Minister has said. The Minister said Nigeria is also
determined to work together with States Parties to oppose efforts to undermine
the works of the Court and its independence and impartiality. “In particular Nigeria strongly
condemns threats made against the ICC in some parts of the world, its
officials, and those cooperating with the Court. Nigeria considers such attacks
as calculated attempts to undermine and cripple fight against impunity and the
laying of a solid foundation for a peaceful and just world, not only for the
present generation, but also for the unborn generations”, he said. The Attorney General of the
Federation put forward the Nigeria’s call on all civilized nations of the world
to rise up to this critical challenge, “if we must safeguard the present and
future generations from extermination,” he said. Malami said Nigeria is committed to
recognizing the Rome Statute system of justice as key in advancing accountability
at the international and national level for sexual and gender-based violence
and violence against children as grave crimes, including as war crimes, crimes
against humanity and genocide. Malami informed the gathering that
the Boko Haram elements have been considerably decimated through the efforts of
the Nigerian Security Forces and the support of our proximate neighbours and
other friendly States saying that “gradually therefore, normalcy is returning
and Nigeria is coming out of the woods and will indeed also come out of the
numerous cases initiated against her at the ICC”. “Nigeria is not a jungle, it is a
peace and justice loving country which is aspiring to develop and create
conducive environment for foreign and other investments, thereby generating
jobs and other opportunities for the teeming population, Therefore, impunity
being a critical element that could prevent this lofty ideas from fruition does
not have a place and will never be tolerated in all facets of our criminal
justice system,” he said. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.