recently promoted senior officers to
different positions. The Acting Director, Army Public
Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, who disclosed this in a statement on Monday in
Abuja, said the redeployment was to reinvigorate the system for professional
efficiency. The new postings, according to Musa,
include the redeployment of Maj.-Gen. E.O Ogunkale from Command Army Records,
Lokoja to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Standards and Evaluation. He said that Maj.-Gen. A.O. Uthman
had been redeployed from Nigerian Army School of Signals, Apapa, Lagos to
Defence Headquarters as Director, Defence Communications; while Maj.-Gen. O.O
Soleye had been moved from Defence Headquarters to Headquarters, Command Army
Records, Lokoja as Commander. “Maj.-Gen. Yusuf Shalangwa, the
erstwhile Director Legal Services, Army, is now redeployed to Defence
Headquarters as Director, Legal Services, while Maj.-Gen. DC Onyemulu moves
from Armed Forces Resettlement Centre to become Director, Armed Forces
Simulation Centre. “Maj-Gen. H.I Bature is redeployed
from Headquarters Training and Doctrine Command, Minna to Defence Headquarters
as Director, Liaison. Musa, however, said Maj.-Gen. IM
Obot is to remain at Nigerian Army Resource Centre as Participant, Senior
Executive Management and Policy Course, while Maj.-Gen. B.O Sawyer is to remain
in Army Headquarters as Director, Plans. “Also, Maj.-Gen. L.A Adegboye, the
Acting General Officer Commanding (GOC) 82 Division, becomes the substantive
GOC, while Maj.-Gen. M.A Masanawa moves from Army Central Ammunition Depot to
Defence Headquarters as Director, Innovation and Combat Development,” he said. According to the new posting,
Maj.-Gen. G Oyefesobi has been redeployed from Defence Intelligence Agency to
Headquarters of Nigerian Army Special Forces Corps as Commander. “Maj.-Gen. M.M Bunza, erstwhile
Commandant, Nigerian Military School, Zaria, is redeployed to Nigerian Army
Education Corps, as Corps Commander; while Maj.-Gen. D.H Ali-Keffi moves from
Nigeria Army School of Infantry, Jaji to Defence Intelligence Agency as
Director of Administration. “Also Maj.-Gen. G.O Adesina moves
from Army Headquarters Department of Army Policy and Plans to Nigerian Army
Signals School, Apapa as Commandant; Maj.-Gen. P.E Eromosele moves from
National Defence College, Abuja to Nigerian Army School of Military
Engineering, Makurdi as Commandant. “Others are Maj.-Gen K.O Aligbe from
Defence Headquarters to Nigerian Army School of Infantry, Jaji as Commandant
and Maj.-Gen. A.B Ibrahim has been appointed Director Training, Army
Headquarters. “Maj.-Gen. G.K Nwosu to remain in
Nigerian Army Special Forces School, Buniyadi as Commandant, Maj.-Gen F.B
Fakrogha to remain in Nigerian Army Women Corps as Commander, while Maj.-Gen. S
Idris moves from Defence Headquarters to Martin Luther Agwai International
Leadership Peace Keeping Centre as Commandant,” he added. Musa further disclosed that
Brig.-Gen. J.C Ogbonna had been moved from 81 Division to 82 Division as
Training Officer, while Brig.-Gen. B.H Mohammed had been moved from Nigerian
Army Education Corps to Nigerian Military School, Zaria as Commandant. He added that Brig.-Gen. G.O
Omorogbe had been redeployed from 4 Brigade, Benin to Headquarters Infantry
Corps Centre, Jaji as Chief of Staff, while Brig.-Gen A.J. Fagge had been moved
moved from Defence Space Agency to Ministry of Defence as Principal General
Staff Officer to Minister of Defence. According to him, Brig.-Gen. N.I
Najaja moves from 6 Military Intelligence Brigade Port Harcourt to Open Source
Intelligence Command as Commander and Brig.-Gen. A.O Quadri moves from 81
Division to Training and Doctrine Command Minna as Director Training. “Also, Brig.-Gen. F.G Dimlong moves
from 105 Division’s Equipment Support (DES) to 101 DES as Commander, while
Brig.-Gen. M Danmadami moves from 3 Division, Jos to Office of the Chief of
Army Staff as Acting Director Procurement. “Brig.-Gen. O.J Akpor is redeployed
from 1 Division Garrison Kaduna to Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna as Director
Military Training while Brig.-Gen. B.U Yahaya moves from Ministry of Defence to
Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja as Subject Expert, South East Asia. “Brig.-Gen. I.M Jallo moves from
Nigerian Defence Academy to 4 Brigade, Benin as Commander; Brig.-Gen. H.E Akpan
from Army War College to Directorate of Army Recruitment, Resettlement and
Reserve as Commander; and Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu to remain as Acting
Director Defence Information. “Brig.-Gen. M.K Gara moves from Army
Headquarters ,Department of Training and Operations to 8 Division Garrison as
Commander; while Brig.-Gen. M.U Wambai moves from SI List (SEC 41) to
Headquarters, Directorate of Legal Services as Acting Director,” he added. Musa said that the Chief of Army
Staff had wished them well in their respective appointments and charges them to
discharge their duties professionally with utmost loyalty to the service and
the Nation. “All the appointments take immediate
effect,” he said. (NAN) Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.