Former
Vice President Atiku Abubakar says he has  restructured his business  outfits which will now come under a new brand
name called Priam
Group. His media adviser, Paul Ibe who
announced this in a statement on Tuesday however assured staff  of Gotel communication, one of his ventures,
of their salaries.The statement said the delay in payment was part of  ‘teething problems’ associated with the new
move. Atiku’s statement reads: “In
order to centralize operation and pursue better efficiency in his businesses,
former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar has announced a migration of
all his business outfits into an umbrella brand known as the Priam Group. “Atiku, a business tycoon and
industrialist is the founder of a number of businesses spanning several sectors
of the economy including manufacturing, media, banking, logistics, agriculture,
printing, education, eateries, beverages, real estate and animal food
processing. He is also a principal shareholder in many more companies both
within and outside of Nigeria. “Under the new arrangement,
many of the business concerns wholly connected to Atiku Abubakar will come
under one brand and one common management. The new brand known as Priam Group
will take over assets and liabilities of the existing companies including, more
especially, staff emoluments and other welfare. “Atiku believes that this
process of restructuring will bring operating efficiency, cost control and good
corporate governance to the group companies and will also allow it to focus on
future growth opportunities. To this end, Priam Group has completed its
feasibility study for the construction of a rice milling company by the River
Benue in Adamawa and has plans to (by June 2020) commission its Abuja animal
feeds factory after some delays in getting the factory equipment. The group is
also looking to actively expand its bottling capacity to cover whole of north
and is investing in expanding its Logistics fleet to service the future
capacity expansion. The future plans also entail having a larger footprint of
its chicken cottage brand and wider reach for its Television channel by going
on Satellite. “Given the challenges
associated with the processes of this kind of restructuring, it is not uncommon
that some of the companies which migration has yet to be perfected will
experience some difficulties in carrying out their day to day mandates. It is
also not unexpected that a restructuring procedure of this size and nature
would come with some likely job rationalisation especially, since each of these
entities has its own finance, admin, marketing, HR and ancillary support
operations which would now be consolidated and undertaken at the group
level. “In specific reference to some
of the news reports in the media regarding Gotel Communication – Gotel TV and
Radio – have been migrated to the Priam Group structure. The Group structure is
the one responsible for the salaries of workers in the two media outfits. What
is, however, being experienced now is the teething problems associated with the
integration, with Gotel being a late entrant to the process. It will ease out.
Already payment of outstanding salaries commences today, 24 December.”