The Islamic Movement in Nigeria has  expressed concern over  the continued detention of its leader Sheikh
Ibraheem Yaqoub Zakzaky for four years after the Army’s onslaught on members of
the Movement known as Zaria massacre of December, 2015. This was made known by Ibrahim Musa,
President Media Forum of the Movement to pressmen in a press statement released
today marking the fourth anniversary of the Zaria Massacre. “As we mark the fourth anniversary of
this Zaria Genocide Memorial, we unequivocally reiterate that enough of this
systematic oppression of Sheikh Zakzaky and members of the Islamic Movement. We
call for the immediate and unconditional release of the Sheikh from this
unjustifiable detention, along with all those still in detention on this
account,” according to the statement. The Islamic Movement also called for
the prosecution of the military officers involved in the brutal massacre of
over 1000 people in Zaria, something which it said even the kangaroo Judicial
commission of inquiry set up by Kaduna state government recommended. “Earlier,
the lopsided Commission they instituted to cover their tracks, could not
entirely cover up the gravity of these crimes. The Commission had observed the
highhandedness of the military, which was not in consonance with their rules of
engagement or any known international best practices, and therefore had
recommended the trial of the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Army’s 1st
Division Kaduna, Gen. Oyebade, who led the operation and all other officers who
participated in the operation, “before a court of competent jurisdiction.”
Years after, none of these Army officers has been arrested for these heinous
crimes and atrocities.” Below is the full press statement: *Zaria Genocide Memorial: It is Four
Years of Continuing Brutality and More Heinous Crimes by the Buhari Regime* The days 12-14th December 2019 mark the
fourth anniversary of the Zaria Massacre. On days like those, Sheikh Ibraheem
Zakzaky, the leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria and thousands of his
followers faced the most brutal crackdown ever, spearheaded by the Nigerian
Army, at the behest of the Buhari-led Nigerian regime and its foreign backers.
In those forty-eight hours of that eventful weekend, over a thousand unarmed
Nigerian citizens were extra judicially gunned down in cold blood and many
hundred others were arrested. It was in those two cruel days that
many infants and babies that knew nothing about the crimes their parents were
allegedly accused of were mercilessly killed. It was during that black period
too that even the elderly were not spared. The seventy-year-old elder sister of
Sheikh Zakzaky was gruesomely thrown in a raging blaze while still alive, as
she cried for water to quench her thirst. It was during that period that many
families were completely wiped out of existence. It was during that period that
not less than 193 children were butchered without any pity. Over 297 women, 548
men and 23 pregnant women were all killed within those two eventful days in
December 2015. Valuable properties worth millions of Naira were torched and
vandalized. Within those terrifying days, graves of
martyrs, earlier killed by the same Nigerian Army extra judicially, were
desecrated and bodies were exhumed. In those same petrifying days, they
secretly buried their victims in mass graves at a location several kilometres
away from the crime scene. It was during those days that worship and
educational centres, graveyard and the residence of Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky
were razed and completely demolished. These heinous crimes against humanity
by whatever standard one looks at them, were the subject of celebration by the
very same trio culprits, President Buhari, Gen. Buratai and Governor Elrufai
only last week, during the Chief of Army Staff annual conference held in
Kaduna. The Governor specifically applauded the Nigerian Army for playing a
leading role in confronting what he labelled “the menace of the outlawed
Elzakzaky Movement.” The World has acknowledged that proclamation as a further
confession in the body of growing evidence of their culpability in these
heinous war crimes. Earlier, the lopsided Commission they
instituted to cover their tracks, could not entirely cover up the gravity of
these crimes. The Commission had observed the highhandedness of the military,
which was not in consonance with their rules of engagement or any known
international best practices, and therefore had recommended the trial of the
General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Army’s 1st Division Kaduna, Gen.
Oyebade, who led the operation and all other officers who participated in the
operation, “before a court of competent jurisdiction.” Years after, none of
these Army officers has been arrested for these heinous crimes and atrocities.
In fact, some sat in the conference hall where Governor Elrufai, Buratai and
Buhari cheering and applauding. In the meantime, four years on, the
government has never been able to prove any of their allegations against Sheikh
Zakzaky or any of his supporters in any court of law. The Sheikh has remained
unlawfully detained in spite of a judgement by an Abuja Federal High Court that
his continued detention is a breach of the constitution and his fundamental
rights, and indeed all known laws. For most of his years in detention since
then, Sheikh Zakzaky has been held virtually incommunicado with only limited
access to his legal representation. He was apparently poisoned in detention and
is being denied medical treatment, putting his life at very great risk. This oppressive Buhari regime has also
since gone ahead to escalate their tyranny against members of the Islamic
Movement, further killing many hundreds and arresting and detaining equally
many hundreds more. The rights of Sheikh Zakzaky and his supporters are
continually being violated with impunity. We, therefore, call on the
International community, especially the International Criminal Court (ICC) at
The Hague and the UN to expedite action to hold the Nigerian government
accountable for its crimes, and help uphold the inviolable human rights of the
people of Nigeria. Finally, as we mark the fourth
anniversary of this Zaria Genocide Memorial, we unequivocally reiterate that
enough of this systematic oppression of Sheikh Zakzaky and members of the
Islamic Movement. We call for the immediate and unconditional release of the
Sheikh from this unjustifiable detention, along with all those still in
detention on this account. We also demand the immediate arrest and prosecution
of all the culprits involved in the Zaria genocide of December 2015 and its
aftermath. SIGNED BY IBRAHIM MUSA PRESIDENT MEDIA FORUM ISLAMIC MOVEMENT IN NIGERIA SKYPE: Ibrahim.musa42