Former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, has emerged head of a reconciliation committee in the lingering crisis between governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II. The problem between the two allegedly brewed from perceived partisanship of the later during the 2019 general elections. Shortly after the reelection of Ganduje as governor, the State House of Assembly created four additional Emirate Council, thereby, whittling Sanusi’s powers. Recall that, only last week, three of the new Emirs announced the removal of some District Heads perceived to be loyal to Sanusi and, Ganduje also announced the formation of Kano State Council of Chiefs to be headed by Sanusi. Recall also that, following Sanusi’s perceived reluctance in accepting the appointment, the Governor issued a two-day ultimatum to the Emir to accept or not. The ultimatum signalled the removal of Sanusi, if he did not accept the offer to head the Council and even though he did, there still fears that the Emir would eventually be removed from office. Ganduje was quoted, a few days ago, to have said that a coalition of Civil Society groups had endorsed Sanusi’s removal as Emir of Kano. However, a statement signed by Alhaji Adamu Fika (Ciroman Fika) on Sunday, a copy of which was obtained by Newsdiaryonline, said the reconciliation committee is composed of Gen. Muhammadu Inuwa Wushishi, CFR, GCON; Alh Abdullahi Ibrahim, SAN;Dr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida, OFR, CFR;Dr. Umaru Mutallab, CON;Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, CFR andSheikh Sharif Ibrahim Saleh. Others are two State Governors, namely Gov. Kayode Fayemi (who is also the chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum) and Gov. Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State. “The committee is working with the full understanding and cooperation of the Federal Government and initial contact has been made with His Excellency the Governor of Kano, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as with His Highness the Emir of Kano, Sarki Muhammadu Sanusi II. “They have each confirmed to holdback from taking any further actions until the committee has fully undertaken and finalised this exercise of reconciliation and resolution. “Similarly, they each has respectively undertaken to call on all their supporters and sympathisers including social media operators to refrain from making statements, declarations, songs, articles, blogs and all actions inimical to the spirit and process of good governance, order and reconciliation. We call on everyone to hearken to the call of their principals,” the statement read in parts. READ FULL TEXT OF THE STATEMENT BELOW: Against the background of the crisis in Kano, a matter that has since degenerated into serious tension within the State, with likely consequences on peace and security with the possibility of spilling into neighbouring states, a group of elders, under the chairmanship of General Abdulsalami Abubakar, GCFR has been formed to intervene in the crisis, with a view to bringing about, full reconciliation, and effective resolution of the matter. Two State Governors are also members of the committee. These are Gov. Kayode Fayemi (who is also the chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum) and Gov. Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State. Other members of the Committee are: Alh. Adamu Fika, Wazirin Fika, CFRGen. Muhammadu Inuwa Wushishi, CFR, GCONAlh Abdullahi Ibrahim, SANDr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida, OFR, CFRDr. Umaru Mutallab, CONProf. Ibrahim Gambari, CFRSheikh Sharif Ibrahim SalehDr. Adamu Fika – Secretary The committee is working with the full understanding and cooperation of the Federal Government and initial contact has been made with His Excellency the Governor of Kano, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as with His Highness the Emir of Kano, Sarki Muhammadu Sanusi II. They have each confirmed to holdback from taking any further actions until the committee has fully undertaken and finalised this exercise of reconciliation and resolution. Similarly, they each has respectively undertaken to call on all their supporters and sympathisers including social media operators to refrain from making statements, declarations, songs, articles, blogs and all actions inimical to the spirit and process of good governance, order and reconciliation. We call on everyone to hearken to the call of their principals. May God Almighty continue to bless our country, grant us greater peace and prosperity, and may He bless, guide and protect our leaders. Amin. Thank you, all. (Signed) Adamu FikaWazirin Fika,22 December, 2019.