By Danlami Nmodu The Inspector General of Police,IGP Mohammed A.
Adamu has  said the need to build partnership
with the citizens has made it imperative to embrace the concept of community
policing. He said “our ability to win over public trust and
confidence as a pathway to crime management is precedent on the capacity of
you, the officers …to rebrand the police and project it positively to the
citizens. It is indeed in cognizance of this that we are embracing the concept
of community policing which is directed at building strong partnership with the
citizens in our drive to attain our mandate. The Public Relations Department of
the Nigeria Police remains critical to this process. “ IGP Adamu made this assertion in his remarks at the opening ceremony of  a 4-day capacity building workshop for police public
relations officers on Tuesday, 8th October, 2019 in Awka, Anambra State. According to the IGP, “All of these
considerations make it imperative that we continually equip the Police Public
Relations Officers with necessary skills and knowledge to efficiently engage
the public and effectively manage the image and perceptions about the Force. “It is my expectation, our dear guests and
officers, therefore, that at the end of the workshop, your capacity would have
been significantly broadened and your skills sharpened for optimal performance
especially in the area of bridging the gap between the Police and members of
the public and enhancing a people-friendly and Community -driven Police Force.
It is also my expectation that you shall at the end of this programme, imbibe
the concept and practice of strategic information management, and develop
strong critical thinking ability needed to dissect and manage complex Public
Relations challenges in the most professional manner. Earlier, he said, “Unarguably, certain
indiscretions and perceived inactions by some personnel of the Force as well as
the security challenges in some parts of the country impact negatively on the
image of the Force.  This reality coupled with the dynamic nature of
crime, rapidly advancing information and communication technology, and the
changing policing environment that we deal with in the line of our duty have
combined to redefine both the concept of policing and the perception of the
police by the citizens. Indeed, experts have asserted that there is an
intertwining relationship between public perception and the effectiveness of
the Police to attain its internal security mandate.” The IGP added that “To a very large extent, the efforts of the FPRO and his team of PPROs across the country have not gone unnoticed by the public.” He also expressed appreciation to Governor Willie Obiano of the state. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.