The former Labour Party (LP) Governorship candidate in Kwara
state, Comrade Issa Aremu mni, has called on the State Governor, Mallam Abdulrahman
Abdulrazaq  to have a rethink over the state government’s reported
revocation of plan to rescind a portion of land acquired by late Dr Abubakar
Olusola Saraki in the ’80s around G.R. A Ilorin. Chief Press Secretary to the sate Governor Rafiu Ajakaye
had  in a statement last week in Ilorin that the controversial land was
originally meant for Government Secretariat and parking space of the Civil
Service Clinic but “was unlawfully allocated to a private firm Asa Investments
Limited without any record of payment to the state government” adding that “No
certificate of occupancy was ever issued in favour of the firm”, the statement
added. Speaking on Sunday on the sidelines of the 30th year
Anniversary of ‘Pakata Patriots’ held at the association’s Hall, Ita-Uma area,
Ilorin, the Kwara state capital, Comrade Aremu observed that the land 
revocation might constitute “unnecessary diversion” for Governor Abdulrazaq’s
administration which he said had commendably hit the ground running in terms of
executing programmes and projects that have direct positive impact on the lives
of kwarans. He cited restoration of water supply in kwara towns, renovations of
colleges of education, prompt payment of salaries, modesty and humility in
governance among the achievements of the administration. According to the
labour leader, the revocation of land belonging to the late Olusola Saraki was
“an unnecessary and avoidable blunt on the good developmental news from the
state” adding that the Governor should remain focused and avoid
distractions. “I want to be properly understood. Any government has the
responsibility to demand for accountability and probity. Am indeed impressed
that the government has been doing that compelling some past government
officials to render accounts for their stewardship. However, you don’t compel
accountability from the dead, in this case land belonging to late Olusola
Saraki who is not even alive to defend himself” he said. Comrade Aremu urged
the governor to combine what he called “his acknowledged humility, simplicity
and modesty with forgiveness and reconciliation in governance.” “As the saying goes: Devil is in the details:
reportedly the land was originally meant for Government Secretariat and parking
space of the Civil Service Clinic, but illegally allocated to a private firm
Asa Investments Limited without certificate of occupancy or any record of
payment to the state government. But if you ask me Godliness is in forgiveness
more so for the dead  in this case the late Dr Olusola Saraki,”. Comrade
Aremu recalled that it was an unprecedented bipartisan popular mobilization
which  terminated 16 years of PDP rule in Kwara state during the 2019
election adding that the government should avoid the temptation of “governance
by conflict of personalities and old scores” which he claimed  have
bedeviled a number of states. “ We are proud to be part of the peaceful
revolution through voting and votes counts during   2019 elections, which
put an end  to PDP dictatorship and bad governance in the state. We need
the same bipartisan partnership across the state to urgently overcome incidence
of poverty which is still unacceptably high in Kwara”. “We don’t need anything that will divert us in the state,
nor inadvertently exhume the moribund PDP through a belated land revocation
and  attendant sentiments that trail it ” . Aremu who is the NEC member of the Nigeria Labour Congress
(NLC) particularly commended Governor Abdulrazaq for prompt payment of
salaries, called for partnership with community development associations in
designing and execution of public projects so as to encourage public ownership
and sustainability of development process. The labour leader however called on
the Governor to put machinery in motion to pay the new minimum wage and even
think about paying beyond N30,000 for workers in the state, saying that many
progressive  governors in the country are now thinking along that line. He also advised workers to be productive and hardworking,
saying that if “there will be minimum wage, there should be minimum
productivity” from the workers too. He commended members of Pakata Patriots for their doggedness
and sense of patriotism, saying that the association’s monumental achievements
within 30 years of it creation are very encouraging and worthwhile.