 “Hate,it had caused a lot of problems in the world,but has not solved
one yet” – Maya Angelou There is an obligation to rebuke the Adara Development Association(ADA) for
its incessant assault on truth,its failure to work for the collective good of
all,and for constantly behaving like it has been wronged more than it has wronged.
The ADA has become notorious with its fictional narratives and propensity for
disinformation. Because the ADA leadership is obviously detached from reality,
it has failed to realize that its manifest actions poses a serious threat to
the very people it claims to represent. The  embarrassing shortsightedness
and unwillingness of the minority, but very vocal section of the Adara
community to engage the Kaduna State Government and other stakeholders in a
constructive spirit to address the security issues that has turned the
area  into the new theater of war is baffling. On 14th November 2019, the ADA which has acquired notoriety for its hardline
Adara  nationalism wrote a scathing letter to Governor Nasir El-Rufai
asking him to stop with immediate effect the “reopening and reconstruction
of Kasuwan Magani Market”, due to what it termed as unaddressed issues
that are of “grave concern to its people”. The issues in a nutshell
are; the “widespread criminality and dastardly attacks in Adara land, the
scrapping of Adara Chiefdom, the portioning of Adara community into two,the
subordination of our people in Kachia LGA under a proposed Kachia Chiefdom, the
subordination of the predominantly Christian population in Kajuru LGA under a
tiny minority Muslim population in Kajuru Emirate and the refusal of government
to engage with or at least be sensitive to the concerns and feelings of the
community in anyway during this dark period”. Before the issues raised by the ADA are addressed point by point, it’s
absolutely important to state that the Awemi Dio Maisamari led Adara
Development Association is rabidly and instinctually irredentist and
consequentially lacks the capacity to appreciate how its action(s) or
inaction(s) affect not just the Adara people he claims to lead but the entire
state. More perplexing is that the Adara Nation seems oblivious of the fact
that the indigenes versus settler war has been tactically shifted from
Kafanchan and Zangon – Kataf to Kajuru Local Government Area. The Adaras are
the new canon fodder in the war against so called “settlers”. It’s
also rather surprising that the ADA prefers to dwell in the tumultuous past
that is vehemently opposed to peaceful coexistence, which goes to show
that  it has learnt nothing, in spite of the catastrophic consequences it
has suffered due to its several ill advised positions. Kaduna State like most other states has security challenges. What makes that
of kaduna State more challenging is the fact that it’s a gateway to several
parts of the country. Kaduna State is bordered by Zamfara, Katsina, and
Kano States to the North; Bauchi and Plateau to the East; Nassawara
to the South; Niger State  to the West, and Abuja, the Federal Capital
Territory which borders Kaduna state to the  South – West, which explains
the huge security challenges especially on its Abuja, the Birnin – Gwari and
Southern Kaduna boarders. The only difference is that while it’s very
convenient for victims of the banditry attacks in Southern Kaduna to allege
genocide or portray the attacks as a “war on christians”, the victims
in the Birinin -Gwari axis haven’t been raising their voices like the
Adaras/Southern Kaduna people do at the slightest attack,but even when they
do,they have not attracted sympathy because the attackers are presumed to be
their fellow  Muslims. But assuming without conceding, that Muslims are
behind the attacks, the fundamental question – would naturally be – why are
they attacking their fellow Muslims in the Birnin – Gwari axis? Isn’t the
attacks an indication that the bandits are more concerned with looting than
they care about religion? The ADA is being economical with the truth,by claiming that the attacks on
its people have persisted,when in fact they have abated,because the newly
created  Ministry of Internal Security and Home Affairs has been up and
doing in ensuring that the menace of insecurity is brought under control. As
expected in every human society there would be minor skirmishes – minor
disagreements and the usual two fighting,like we have had several times in the
past,thankfully the recent ones haven’t boiled over.  Even the cold
blooded murder of Mujtaba on 10th November 2019 by suspected Adara militia at
Chibiya town has not triggered the usual counter retaliatory killings, due to
the proactive intervention by the government and the cooperation of the leaders
from the affected communities . The ADA is obviously not comfortable with the
prevailing peace the Kajuru  Local Government Area is enjoying which is
why it’s busy crying wolf where there is none and hell bent on fomenting one by
demanding that the market which is the source of economic survival of its
people and which was only reopened after due  consultations with all
stakeholders be closed down immediately. ADA by asking that the market be closed
down has confirmed clearly that it’s out of touch and only uses the people for
its narrow politics of hate. It’s a known fact that the ultimate agenda of the ADA is the relocation of
the historic Kasuwan Maigani market from its present site to Kufana,the
ancestral headquarters of the Adaras, which explains why the ADA has continued
to tag the  market as  “Hausa market” and is fiercely
opposed to the N2.78 billion redevelopment of the market by the local and state
government in order to tackle the underlying factor behind the persistent
crisis, which is inadequate shops for those who want to trade. Like El-Rufai
rightly observed, “contentions over the location of markets and access to
them have been implicated in the legacy of violence that has blighted some of
our communities.” The various Commission of Inquiry Reports which are the
working documents confirm this fact and has provided the governor with the way
forward,considering that the crisis always eventually assumed sectarian/ethnic
dimensions. It’s important to stress that the post conflict assessment of the 2018
Kasuwan Magani crisis further convinced the Kaduna State Government to
frontally address the market issue due to its centrality in all conflicts. It
consequently adopted a two pronged approach of embarking on massive
redevelopment of markets as a strategy of attacking the root cause of the
various crisis that the state had witnessed and as part of the administration’s
programme  of promoting equal opportunity and economic development of the
various communities. For instance the new Kasuwan Magani market will have more
shops than can be occupied in the near future and will every sense be a model
market with meat modern abattoirs, police post, clinic and fire service area in
compliance with health, safety and environment regulatory requirements that is
a must for a model market. This is the market that the ADA wants the government
to stop the construction,so that another crisis break out! On the issue of Internally Displaced Persons(IDP’s),the gospel truth is that
with the restoration of peace,those who were forced to abandon their homes due
to the crisis have been helped with cash,building materials by the State
Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and the  Kajuru Local Government 
Council to relocate back home. Coincidentally the first camp to be closed is
the Adara Town Hall located in Sabo in Kaduna metropolis, which unknown to many
had become a cash cow for the ADA leadership, a scam on which they were feeding
fat on. Security reports indicates that  people were usually brought in
buses to the camps in the morning and taken away at the close of business at
night, so that they could continue to attract donations and their agenda of
continued their demonization of the state government. It’s quite understandable
that the very first action of Awemi Dio Maisamari, the trouble shooting ADA
National President after his release from detention was to ask that the various
camps be reopened for the economic reasons already stated. The operating political template of the ADA is to lie, to repeat the lie,in
a sustained campaign of disinformation which they hope will become the gospel
truth, having successfully portrayed themselves as “victims” of the
Hausa/Fulani oligarchy. It’s a  huge shame that the ADA and indeed many
prominent Adara sons and daughters who are aware that the late Agom Adara was
killed on his way from  the wedding sent forth of his niece Rahab Amos
Galadima which held at the Nazareth Baptist Church Ungwan Boro, but have refused
to speak up because it paints Nasir El – Rufai in bad light. In spite of their
evil machinations, the undisputed fact remains that he was never invited to any
meeting and thus never met with the governor or any official of the Kaduna
State Government. The governor met with the State Council of Chiefs and Emirs
on the 23rd October 2018,while the Agom Adara was kidnapped on the 19th October
2018. For the ADA to continue to bandy the lie that his killing is part of a
larger conspiracy against the Adara Nation is not only plain mischief,but
wickedness of the highest order. Thankfully the Nigerian Police Force have
arrested the hoodlums behind the dastardly act. On the baseless allegation that the Adara Chiefdom has been scrapped and
Adara people subordinated under a “tiny Muslim population in Kajuru
Emirate”, it will be better to await the state government official
statement on the various adjustments and the implementation of the territorial
approach to traditional administration. But for certain the state government is
well guided in its actions and the intention clearly is to address problems and
not to create problems. The problem of the ADA, which the late Agom Adara had
vehemently complained about to the state government, is the determination of
the ADA to usurp traditional authority. Against this background it would be
difficult for the state government to engage the ADA and similar bodies,
including the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union(SOKAPU), whose registration was
declined by the Corporate Affairs Commission(CAC),because of its partisan
political character. In one word these bodies are a problem to themselves and
the state and until they change their rabid and combative posture,it will be
extremely difficult for the government to engage them. How can anyone or the
government engage groups that are diametrically opposed to dialogue or that
insists that it must be on its terms? The other issues raised by the ADA are the usual catalogue of the sins
allegedly committed against them,which deserves no further response. We look
forward to the day that the ADA will accept some responsibilities for the
actions of its people and if that day ever comes, it will be a signal that it
desires peaceful coexistence.