The  signing of a Build
Operate and Transfer agreement between the Lagos State Government and a few
private developers has come under serious scrutiny by the State Chairman of the
People’s Democratic Party, Engr. Adedeji Doherty. Doherty said that this agreement only shows that the state
government is not sensitive to the needs of the students of LASU or genuinely
interested in the progress of education and human capital acquisition and
development in Lagos State. He wondered if any due diligence was carried out on this project
and expressed concern that the BOT agreement is shrouded in secrecy as no
details were provided about the private investors involved. The greatest worry
he said, is about the effect of such an agreement on the 26,000 already
over-burdened students of LASU. Doherty recalled that LASU was built over 30 years ago and should
have gone through various phases of project development, which should have
included the construction of student accommodation. He wondered what happened
to the master plan of the institution. Doherty said: “I advise that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu
reverses this decision as it will only subject students to more hardship and
educational pressures. Mr Governor should know that Education is the backbone
of societal development and must be made available and affordable to all.” He added that this agreement would only make the developers
exploit the good students of LASU and subject them to economic hardship and
psychological torture, as they were sure to become victims of exploitation in
the hands of capitalist developer-landlords. The PDP chairman said that a better option in the absence of funds
would be to work with a banking institution to secure a long term loan which
could run for 20 – 30 years, adding that this would certainly reduce the burden
by making the accommodation more affordable. Finally, Doherty said that Lagosians will recall
that the Lagos State Government led by Babatunde Raji Fashola, received $95m
from the World Bank between 2009 and 2013 and an additional $42m in March 2014
specifically for Education. It is therefore baffling that till date, Lagos
State cannot boast of a single world class educational institution and this may
explain the lack of trust that many Lagosians feel for the APC led
administration.