Former Governor Peter Obi of Anambra State, Vice
Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019
general elections; Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, as well as former
Governor Virgy Etiaba of Anambra State, on Saturday felicitated with the
Founder of the Loveworld Inc, also known as Christ Embassy, Rev. Dr. Chris
Oyakhilome, on his birthday anniversary. Obi in his facilitation message, on behalf of his family,
dated December 7, 2019, expressed his sincere congratulation of the Man of God
on his birthday, giving God all the glory for the auspicious moment in his
life. Obi in his message acknowledged: “As the founder of the
Loveworld Inc, also known as Christ Embassy, you have remained consistent in
preaching Christ to the world. Your charismatic leadership has remained an
inspiration to younger pastors desirous of propagating Christ among all
nations. “Besides, your publication – Rhapsody of Realities –
has remained an enduring Christian literature of all times.” The former Anambra Governor further remarked: “May I note
that you have also continued to contribute to the growth and development of
humanity through your activities in education, care for children and support
for the less privileged as well as those challenged by the vicissitudes of
life. “I note with joy, your recent donation of a tuition-free
school and a health centre to the Demsa community in Adamawa State through your
Foundation – Chris Oyakhilome Foundation International. “Our prayer is that God will continue to guard and guide
you as you work in his Vineyard. May He give you the strength and courage to
continue to speak against the ills of our nation. “Once again, I congratulate you and assure you of my best
wishes now and always.” Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State in his
congratulatory message, eulogized Pastor Oyakhilome for his commitment and
devotion to planting seeds of the gospel across the globe, noting that
posterity will always remember him. Governor Obaseki declared: “On behalf of the
Government and people of Edo State, I congratulate you, Rev. Dr. Chris
Oyakhilome, President of Loveworld Inc. also known as Christ Embassy, on this
auspicious occasion of your birthday celebration. “Edo State is proud to have a revered Christian
leader like you, who has planted seeds of the gospel across the globe, for
which posterity will always remember you.” The Governor maintained: “Your exemplary
lifestyle, which epitomizes the virtues of honesty, peace, patience,
contentment, humility and diligence, is a motivation to millions of citizens in
our dear state, who have been immensely blessed by your ministry. “I commend your astute social and humanitarian
interventions that have continued to complement the efforts of governments in
providing a better, rewarding life for the people and residents of Edo State. “I enjoin you to continue in your highly
impactful service to God and humanity, as I pray that the Almighty God grant
you long life and more strength to carry on the good work.” Nigeria’s first Governor, Dame
Virgy  Etiaba, in her congratulatory message,  described
Pastor Chris as an immense visioner, a most creative thinker, and a great man
of God who has decided to accomplish extraordinary things. “You have certainly achieved the most
unimaginable feats in His Vineyard. Words are not enough to capture your
exploits in the service of our Lord but you see,’ Dame Etiaba had declared in a
goodwill message sent through the Dame Virgy Etiaba Foundation. The former governor acknowledged Pastor Chris’
foundations and initiatives, including the Trauma Care International
Foundation, which have continued to provide humanitarian service to the benefit
of millions of people in Nigeria and around the world.