 All Progressives Congress National
Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on
his 77th birthday. As president, Asiwaju Tinubu said Buhari
had done much to correct the national direction and to place Nigeria on the
pathway to our better future. In a special statement on the
president’s birthday signed by his Media Adviser, Tunde Rahman, Asiwaju Tinubu
said: “Joining the rest of the
country, I extend my best wishes to President Muhammadu Buhari
on his birthday. This special day gives us an opportunity to
personally thank you for the contributions you have made to the development of
our nation. Throughout your public life you have shown yourself to be a man of
hard work, dedication and principle. “You have exhibited that rare
combination of a simple and modest lifestyle coupled with an ambitious and
grand vision for our nation. As president, you have done much to correct our
national direction and to place us on the pathway to our better future. “Your administration has been one
of momentous achievement and the realization of hope and progress
for our country and our party, the All Progressives Congress. “A man of political courage, you
have taken bold decisions that those before you knew were needed but
avoided taking. You have made Nigeria safer by making the violent
terrorists and wrongdoers so much weaker that they will ultimately fall due to
your efforts protecting our national security. “Your fight against corruption has been
historic and it has reflected your great personal honesty.
In reviving our economy, you continue to take initiatives that draw
on the immense talent and creativity of our people. “You are truly the president for this
moment in our national journey. You have our full support. As the leader of our
party, you have shown great statesmanship by taking action and
giving counsel that strengthens the APC and its pursuit of
greater internal democracy and openness. “By expressing your desire that the
party continues to be strong and vibrant even after your tenure, you have
demonstrated your commitment to an enduring political legacy to
buttress the patriotic legacy of your years of governance as president of our
beloved republic. “As usual, you have shown rare
bravery and exemplary resilience in all you do. Your hand is on the
plough and we know you will continue to press on. Be assured, the people
of this nation are with you as you are for them. I wish you, Mr.
President, so many more years of good health and fine
achievement. Happy Birthday Mr. President!” Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.