On
December 29, it will be exactly four years that you have been re-arrested by
the operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS). Since that
disheartening day in 2015, you have been clamped in illegal detention, in utter
disregard for the rule of law and unconcealed contempt for court orders
directing your release from unlawful custody. (https://cutt.ly/dasukibails) It
is no longer news that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari has
blatantly and consistently disobeyed the several bails granted for your release
by High Courts, the Appeal Court and the ECOWAS Court of Justice. More
worrisome is the fact that the judges/Justice involved seem afraid to enforce
their judgments in this regard. The Judges possibly nurse the fear of a similar
predicament that befell the first trial judge in your case, Justice Ademola
Adetokunbo, who had ordered your immediate release. Subsequently, his house was
not only ransacked, but he was also humiliated and arraigned in court,
alongside his wife who was then Head of Service in Lagos State. Although both
of them were acquitted of the charges brought on them by the state, they were
immediately retired from public service after this. (https://cutt.ly/ademola) Once
again, I wish to commiserate with you over the death of your father, Sultan Ibrahim
Dasuki, who unfortunately was not able to see you before he passed on in Abuja;
and also over the mysterious death of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air
Marshal Alex Badeh, whose family equally went through some frightening plight
thereafter. Meanwhile,
the AVM Jon-ode Arms probe panel, which claimed to have indicted a number of
security officials, mostly Nigerian Airforce officers, was unceremoniously
disbanded after some members of the team were caught red-handed in criminal
activities and corrupt practices. (https://cutt.ly/jonode) That
infamous panel deliberately refused to acknowledge the efforts of the previous
administration, during your tenure as the National Security Adviser (NSA), when
our gallant troops recovered many towns and villages from Boko Haram terrorists
in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States. Some
of the liberated towns then include, but are not limited to, Abadam, Askira,
Baga, Bama, Bara, Buni Yadi, Damboa, Dikwa, Gamboru-Ngala, Goniri, Gujba,
Gulag, Gulani, Gwoza, Hong, Kala Balge, Konduga, Kukawa, Marte, Madagali,
Michika, Monguno, Mubi, and Vimtim, among other communities. There are
available videos and pictorial evidence on these successes, including the
rescue of 234 abductees (women and children) on April 30, 2015, by the
military, who had stormed sections of the Sambisa Forest. (https://cutt.ly/bokotowns) The
same panel must have deliberately ignored the classified ‘Operation Salama’ in
North-West, during which our illustrious troops eliminated hundreds of
terrorists in notorious enclaves in the Kano-Jigawa axis, in an
intelligence-driven operation sanctioned by the then government of the two
States, in cooperation with traditional institutions in the areas. Prior
to this, the insurgents had sacked police stations, shut down schools and
businesses and were taxing citizens and running an illegal administration,
especially in Lamba and Bolmo Forests, in the Gwaram district of Jigawa State
in 2014, before the military offensives that liberated these places with
minimal collateral damages. (https://cutt.ly/jgschool) Since
the destruction of the enclaves and elimination of the terrorists by the
well-trained special forces, there has never been a repeat insurgent incursion
in that axis, except for the suspected reprisal attack on the convoy of late
Emir Ado Bayero of Kano. (https://cutt.ly/sojajigawa) Meanwhile,
the terrorists have sustained their atrocities in the North-East. In fairness
to President Buhari, his administration has provided adequate funding for
recruitments and the procurement of equipment for the military, but the
terrorists still engage our troops in a cat-and-mouse game. Governor Zulum
recently cried out that Boko Haram had occupied some communities in Borno State
after the terrorists executed Muslim aid workers and converted a Christian
female worker into a permanent sex-slave. (https://cutt.ly/zulum) I
wish the current NSA Babagana Monguno could learn some crucial lessons from
your administration, in curtailing the excesses of insurgents and banditry in
the North-East and North-West, through the cooperation of traditional
institutions and the political class in local communities. In fact, effective
coordination of the operations Python Dance of General Buratai and Rattlesnakes
of Air Marshal Sadique could make the desired impacts. I
am still surprised that Northerners, especially from your Sokoto axis, have not
demonstrated enough courage to press for your release, just as other states and
regions have been clamouring in defence of their people who are facing
persecution. Imagine the Justice Minister, Abubakar Malami, from Kebbi State,
who ought to strive to be fair and just, claiming in a media interview that you
(Dasuki) were instrumental to the death of 100,000 Nigerians, even when the entire
death tally since the break of the Boko Haram menace has been less than 25,000!
When your family took him before the Disciplinary Panel of the Legal
Practitioners Privileges Committee over the prejudicial statement, he recanted
and denied making such claim. (https://cutt.ly/malami) It
is very painful that some close allies of President Buhari, who could have
intervened on your behalf, are not only your supposed friends but are more
importantly family members. The wife of Mamman Daura is your full sister. The
wife of a former Chief Justice of the Federation, Mrs Maryam Uwais, is your
step-sister. Even Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, is an in-law, who played a key
role in your wedding. I don’t need to mention your relationship with Asiwaju
Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Adamu Adamu, Rotimi Amaechi, among others. Why
are they silent about your fate? Is it the fear of losing power or patronage? (https://cutt.ly/spymaster) Meanwhile,
I have noticed the courage and fearlessness of a few retired army officers who
have publicly defended you, especially on the positive roles you played in
Buhari’s life and your sacrifices to the nation as a distinguished spymaster.
For instance, a former ADC to General Buhari during the military era, Mustapha
Jokolo, disclosed in a widely publicised interview that you (Dasuki) were the
major financier of the coup that brought Buhari to power in December 1983 (https://cutt.ly/jokolo). In the face of the false claim that
you arrested Buhari after the IBB coup, Colonel Abdulmumini Aminu from Katsina
has publicly announced that it was him, alongside others, who picked Buhari up
in Dodan Barracks on that day in August 1985 (https://cutt.ly/aminu). You took no part in this. More so,
at different occasions, Colonel Dangiwa Umar and Sheikh Ahmad Gummi have stated
that the only offence for your illegal detention so far was due to your loyalty
to President Goodluck Jonathan as his NSA (https://cutt.ly/gummi). Their
efforts could not be comparable to that showered by others on our friend,
Omoyele Sowore, Publisher of SaharaReporters, who is also in illegal detention
against court orders, for staging a protest tagged RevolutionNow. You will
recall that even though he supported our media campaign for security service
during my compulsory retirement, his news medium, SaharaReporters was
nevertheless used to campaign against you and the previous administration by
APC-Buhari’s elements. On
a lighter note, I have retired voluntarily from the public service on October
10 this year after my reinstatement. Meanwhile, I am yet to be paid the five
years entitlement by your old friend, Information Minister, Mr. Lai Mohammed While
I commend the humility, perseverance and stoicism that you have chosen to bear
your present predicament, I pray for a positive development in your situation,
so that you don’t spend any further stretch of time in illegal detention, going
forward. I
pray that Allah continues to grant you the fortitude and grace to continue to
endure the current challenges without succumbing to deep despair, till justice
is achieved in your situation, within the earliest possible time. On
a lighter note, I have retired voluntarily from the public service on October
10 this year after the reinstatement. Meanwhile, I am yet to be paid the five
years entitlement by your old friend, Information Minister, Mr. Lai Mohammed Sincere
Regards. Always. Yushau
A. Shuaib Author
“An Encounter with the Spymaster” Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.