The Buhari Osinbajo Solidarity
Front,BOSF has dismissed the latest story on the unexplained FIRS N40b campaign
fund  as a tissue of lies. BOSF in its reaction to the
PRNigeria story which has gone viral since Sunday   said”whoever is behind this, a lie is a  lieis a lie” The BOSF reaction being circulated
on social media  also recalled an earlier
statement by FIRS debunking  claim by
comrade Timi Frank. The full text of BOSF reaction reads
thus: “First it was N90B, but now N40B.
Which is which? It took a disgruntled politician to convey the fake news of
N90B, now it is the services of an unquestioning PR newswire that is passing on
the unsupported, baseless N40B bogus allegation. Whichever way whoever is
behind this, a lie is a lie is a lie! In any case FIRS statement bears
repeating. Please read it closely and decide for yourself who is lying. “The attention of the Federal
Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, has been drawn to publication in some online and
daily newspapers by a certain Comrade Timi Frank, the former Deputy National
Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who claimed that
the FIRS supported the`APC, through the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo with a
phantom N90 billion. The FIRS wishes to state as follows: 1.      That the
entire allegation being spread by one Frank  Timi  that the 
Federal Inland Revenue Service spent N90billion to fund the last election is mendacious,
wicked, malicious and a calculated attempt to smear the image of the Service
and that of his Excellency, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi  Osinbajo. This
campaign of calumny and villifying false claims are entirely, libellous,
unfounded in fact, irresponsible and a brazen assault on the integrity of the
Service as a responsible and accountable organisation and demonstrates an
abysmal ignorance of the budgetary and expenditure process of the FIRS. 2.      That in the
last four years since Mr. Tunde Fowler has supervised operations at the FIRS,
the agency had not received up to N100 billion, per annum, as Cost of
Collection from the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee, FAAC. FAAC is a
public institution, whose records are open to the public. 3.      That it is
from the remittances from FAAC—which had never grossed up to N100 billion, PER
ANNUM, that FIRS pays the salary and emoluments and trains it’s over 8000
staff, runs over 150 offices and provides for other needs of the Service. 4.      That given
the above, IT IS NOT PLAUSIBLE nor DOES IT MAKE ANY SENSE that FIRS will commit
its resources to a phantom campaign of N90 billion as suggested by Mr. Timi
Frank and FIRS does not fund political associations. 5.      That FIRS is
a creation of statute and its activities are governed by the laws of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria and financials regulations and thus, IT IS NOT
PLAUSIBLE, that its funds could be expended in such a cavalier manner as
suggested by Mr. Timi Frank. 6.      That FIRS
Budget and expenditure approval processes pass through the Budget Office and
the Ministry of Finance, before such are presented to the National Assembly for
Appropriation into Law. The National Assembly committees, consisting of all
parties and inclinations exercise oversight function on all agencies of the
Federal Government to ensure agencies keep to the letters of the Appropriation
Act. Thus FIRS’ operations are subjected to Scrutiny and close monitoring by
the National Assembly, the Federation Accounts Allocation Committee and the
Ministry of Finance. 7.      It is
therefore unthinkable, malicious and irresponsible for the said Frank to
insinuate or infer that N90 billion or any part thereof could be spent
illegally and without budgetary approval. 8.      It is equally
alarming to note that this injurious falsehood and blackmail could find space
in our mass media without proper scrutiny particularly with the availability of
the Freedom of Information Act, which broadly allows Nigerians access to
information on expenditure of public funds by government agencies. This all
goes to show an orchestrated and invidious decision by paid agents to discredit
the Service in order to achieve their diabolical ends, which is at variance
from the interest of Nigerians. 9.      We ask
members of the public to ignore the claims of Mr. Timi Frank, with the ignominy
it deserves as the former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the APC is
seeking for cheap popularity and relevance. 10.     It is in the
light of the foregoing observations, the FIRS demands an unequivocal apology
from the said Mr. Timi Frank and a well publicised public apology in three
major and leading newspapers within the next 24 hours. The FIRS shall pursue
claims for aggravated damages in libel and injurious falsehood against the said
Mr. Frank if he fails to meet these conditions in the next 24 hours. 11.      This
invidious publication is targeted as derailing the revenue generation efforts
for  the three  tiers of government in the nation. This is calculated
economic sabotage and hereby referred to the Office of the Attorney General of
the Federation officially. 12.     We finally
wish to assure all Nigerians that the FIRS did not spend and could not have
spent taxpayers money for political ends. For the avoidance of doubt, every
kobo paid by taxpayers goes straight to the Federation Account domiciled at the
Central Bank of Nigeria and that the FIRS does not possess the constitutional
right to touch the said account or appropriate any kobo there from to itself. The FIRS wishes to reassure members
of the public that the FIRS is a PUBLIC TRUST, which the agency operates on
behalf of Nigerians. Taxpayers money-including the operational funds of the
Service- are sacred.  FIRS remains committed to public accountability and
transparency in the sacred mandate of tax collection and public
expenditure.”  Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.