Conflict, an integral and avoidable part of human existence, is inherent and prevalent within and among individuals or groups. It is natural, inevitable, necessary, and normal (Mayer, 2012). It oftentimes defines our behaviour. Conflict propels behaviour to oneself and disposition towards others. Conflict according to Michael Nicholson is ‘an activity which takes place when conscious beings… wish to carry out mutually inconsistent acts concerning their wants, needs or obligations’. Bernard Mayer (2012) opines that ‘we may think of conflict as a feeling, a disagreement, real or perceived incompatibility of interest, a product of inconsistent worldviews, or a set of behaviors’. However
conflict has the potential of causing disaffection and if not checked could
lead to crisis thereby resulting in damage to or loss of property and loss of
lives. Conflict has various forms and it comes in multilayers of dynamics.
Handling of conflict requires tact, diplomacy and sometimes expertise. For
peace and growth of any society, there is need to put in place strategies for resolving
conflict. Approaches to conflict resolutions vary according to the source,
trigger, the person or group handling the conflict and the type of conflict and
the dramatis personae involved. Conflict can be broadly classified into personal and group. Within each of these interpersonal conflict, intra personal conflict, inter group conflict and intra group conflict. Whatever type of conflict it is, conflict not checked or properly managed is a crisis in waiting. Conflict must be properly addressed or managed at the brewing stage to avoid grave consequences. Such conflict could lead to violence resulting to impasse, imbroglio or even war! Whatever is the view of the manager of conflict, there is need to avoid it by taking practical steps to prevent it or resolve it when it occurs. CONFLICT DYNAMICS: VIEWS AND SOLUTIONS Conflict
occurs as a result of disagreement and deferring opinions, beliefs or selfish
interest. It is a struggle that could degenerate to crisis or breakdown of law
and order. Conflict, according to Michael Nicholson, is ‘an activity which
takes place when conscious beings (individuals or groups) wish to carry out
mutually inconsistent acts concerning their wants, needs or obligations.’ It is
‘an escalation of disagreement which is its common prerequisite, and is
characterized by existence of conflict behavior, in which the beings are
actually trying to damage one another’. Conflict begins with disagreement, and
followed by verbal abuse and interference. Conflict ‘emerges and is experienced
along cognitive (perception), emotional (feeling), and behavioral (action)
dimensions’. Conflict index includes mutual image of misunderstanding, hostile
utterances, actions and responses that seek to put the interest (s) of the
other party in a disadvantaged position (Akpuru-Aja, 2009). Conflict
has been a subject of concern and has been a universal theme in many
literature. Conflict could be within man himself, conflict with fellow man,
conflict between man and society, conflict between man and nature, conflict
between man and machine, conflict between man and fate or supernatural forces.
Generally conflict is grouped into interpersonal, intrapersonal, inter group and
intra group. STAGES
OF CONFLICT Aja
Akpuru- Aja (2009) in an article entitled, ‘Basic Concepts of Conflicts’,
identified phases into which conflict graduates – early conflict indicators,
conflict resistance, explosive or exhaustive conflict, and terrorism which
according to him, is the ‘most deadly spiral and highest level of violence’Akpuru-Aja
(2009) also identified the following conflict dynamics: CAUSES OF CONFLICT Causes of conflict can be understood or better appreciated against the background of ‘circle of conflict’ developed by Christopher Moore (2003). The cycle consists of five components namely: relationship problems, data problems, value differences, structural problems, and interests. COMMON CONFLICTS IN SCHOOLS Every
community or organization has its peculiar type of conflict prevalent in it. In
many tertiary institutions in Nigeria, the following types of conflict are
manifest: CONFLICT
MANAGEMENT STYLES Conflict, as earlier observed, is
inevitable in any human society. Therefore, appropriate practical and proactive
steps must be taken to manage it to avoid it sliding into unimaginable damning
consequences. There are various strategic approaches to conflict management.
Each handler or mediator and arbitrator or manager adopts strategies or styles
most convenient and appropriate to a situation. However, the following conflict
management styles are discernible: Integrating
Conflict Management Style: This has been described as most
suitable style that involves high level of concern for oneself and others. It involves
considering all shades of opinions, ideas, concerns, fears and integrating them
for purpose of arriving at a resolution Compromising:
Compromising conflict management style involves shifting ground and finding a
meeting point in resolving conflict especially when there is no time to access
or consider all options. In That case, it is appropriate that a stand or
position is maintained that will be acceptable to all parties. In this case
some participants are ready to jettison some of their positions or interest in
the interest of peace and harmony. Dominating:
Dominating style is selfish and egocentric in resolving conflict. It is a
win-lose situation and autocratic disposition to conflict resolution in which
one party tries to dominate others by lording their opinions, views and
interest over others. Here participants consciously tries to impose their views
on others whom they are either cajoled or forced to accept their own worldviews
and positions. This approach to conflict management is common among tyrants who
often care less about others but are concerned about themselves alone and what
they want. But this style as crude as it may be has its advantage. It is useful
in an emergency situation when opposing or conflicting parties or sides cannot
reach a consensus and as such urgent action has to be taken. Obliging:
Conversely, obliging conflict management approach involves consideration for
others and little or less consideration for oneself. Avoiding:
This style involves a low concern for oneself and others. Whatever form of conflict that occurs
either within an individual or between two individuals or groups, it is a bomb
waiting to explode if not managed or controlled. Over the years, violence, bloodletting,
wanton destruction of life and property has occurred as a result of conflict
which was not attended to. Therefore in the university system, management must
put in place proactive measures to address conflict and also put in place
conflict or crises management team to address conflict when it occurs. SOLUTIONS TO CONFLICT In finding solutions to a problem, we
must understand the problem itself and appreciate its complexity.  In understanding the root of conflict, Mayer (2012)counsels
that ‘If we are to be effective in handling conflict, we must start with a way
to make sense of it and to embrace both its complexity and its essence’. In doing
this, he posits: We need tools
that help us separate out the many complex interactions that make up a
conflict, that help us understand the roots of conflict, and that give us a
reasonable handle on the forces that motivate the behavior and interaction of
all participants, including ourselves Mediation/arbitration:
This involves a third party trying to resolve conflict between two parties or
between two or among groups. Cooperation:
In conflict resolution, parties involved in the conflict must cooperate with
the mediators or negotiators if any meaningful achievement is to be made. Compromise:
Sometimes, when parties involved in a dispute or conflict embrace the live and
let’s live attitude to life, resolution of conflict becomes much easier. In
other words, both parties must be ready to compromise their positions for peace
to reign otherwise the resolution will linger. Fairness, Equity and
Justice: The best approach to avoid or resolve
conflict is equitable distribution of resources and understanding needs of
parties. Dialogue
and Negotiation or Engagement: This is perhaps
the most important approach to conflict resolution. This could be done at any
stage of the crisis. It involves parties coming to the round table to ‘jaw jaw’
instead of ‘war war’. Here, parties are allowed to express their opinions and
negotiate their needs. Whatever approach or style that we
might want to adopt in handling conflict situation, there is a common purpose,
assumptions about what constitutes ‘constructive engagement’.And this ‘seem
characteristic, if not of every element in an effective conflict intervention
system, at least of the system as a whole’. The four core values, according to
Mayer involve a commitment to dialogue, an emphasis on needs, empowerment and
respect. CONCLUSION: The prevalence or ubiquity of conflict
in the society is a necessity and inevitable. Conflict arises as a result of
clash of interest. Dynamics of conflict is a phenomenon that confront
individuals, groups and must be addressed headlong. Such conflict dynamics come
from various sources ranging from internal conflict, interpersonal,
intrapersonal, intergroup or even international. The dynamics of conflict
require multi-dimensional approaches. In summary, it is imperative to identify
sources or causes of a particular conflict in order to proffer solutions. Not
only this, it is cost effective and could prevent violent conflict or crisis if
conflicts are managed when they are still at the brewing stage. SUGGESTIONS
AND RECOMMENDATIONS Oyebade is the Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of Zone XI. He delivered the speech during the Security Week of the Security Department of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife in Osun State on 18th December 2019.  Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.