The
unfolding drama with Omoyele Sowore as a star actor has further increased the
noise level of the rule of law in our democracy. So far, in this drama, memory
and objectivity are the first casualties. Of course cheap populism and
political correctness are the winners. But Lest we forget: here are some 
Godliness in some positive details: Sowore was the former Presidential
Candidate of African Action Congress (AAC) Party during April 2019 presidential
elections. That was a commendable, radical and revolutionary transformation
from an activist/on line journalist to a budding state actor. I personally
hailed his audacity to join the electoral process, by pushing for progressive
ideas in mainstream politics. Instead of activism of the margin, though in his
pre-election consultation Sowore consulted more the same conservative forces
that included reactionary religious clerics and traditional rulers than with
popular democratic forces like organized labour, women and youth organizations.
That was of course his democratic choice. It is now an open knowledge
that  scores of candidates contested for the historic presidential seat.
Muhammdu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, APC, polled 15,191,847 votes
to become the second two term elected President since constitutional rule in
1999. His main contender, Atiku Abubabakar of the Peoples Democratic Party got
11,264,977 votes to come second. With abiding faith in the rules of electoral
process, Contender  Atiku Abubabakar followed the paths of the addictive
aggrieved candidate Buhari of 2007 to 2011,  commendably went as far as
Supreme Court to invalidate the Buhari’s victory. In a landmark judgement, the
Supreme Court on Friday November 15th gave  reasons for  its October
30, 2019 decision in which it  dismissed  the appeal by the People’s
Democratic Party’s Presidential candidate  in the February election,
Alhaji Atiku Abubakar  and his party against President Muhammadu Buhari of
the All Progressives Congress (APC). That judgement closes the chapter of the
2019 presidential election in Nigeria’ election story. Sowore, came fifth with
some 33,953 votes but  reportedly ahead of other new entrants to the race
like Fela Durotoye of the Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN, who polled 16,779, and
Kingsley Moghalu of the Young Democratic Party, YPP, who garnered 21,886. And
then devil in the details sets in. With inexplainable twisted faith in the
rules of electoral process, Sowore  gave a notice of a protest tagged
#RevolutionNow”, which was scheduled for August 5, 2019, ostensibly 
“demanding better governance and improvement in the welfare of Nigerians as
millions of people grapple with multidimensional poverty, often living on less
than $2 a day”.  Precisely on July 29: Sowore announced a nationwide #RevolutionNow protest scheduled for August
5. On August 3rd he was arrested with court order for his
detention for 45 days (as against 90 days) asked for by the DSS. Of course more
devilish details between the time of his arrest and now had emerged with
attendant outrage and passion depending on who the partisan is and his
politics, which is democratic too. They include  bail orders of some 100
million (reduced to 50 million) Naira and the spectacular serial diatribes
between Sowore’s lawyer, Femi Falana and the DSS. The anti-climax was on
December 5, 2019, in which the court again reportedly set Sowore free having
met his bail terms but again reportedly rearrested by DSS operatives at the
court premises. The point cannot be overstated that the rule of law is the
foundation of democratic process as sanctioned by the 1999 constitution with
its imperfections.  Of course we can ask the questions: whose laws, which
laws? But laws nonetheless! The point cannot be overstated that any citizen
granted bail by any court deserves her liberty. This applies to Sowore too.
However the point can also not be overemphasized that respect of rule of law
and rules of electoral engagement  is a duty for all citizens,
politicians, voters, service men and women alike. Notwithstanding
long period of military intervention,  Nigeria has a rich democratic
heritage. This year marks marks two decades of uninterrupted civil rules.
Nigeria remains the largest democracy in Sub-Sahara Africa. INEC reported that
as many as 87 million voters registered for 2019 elections. That was almost the
population of Egypt. That was almost twice the population of South Africa of 52
million people and three times the population of Ghana of 26 millions.
Quantitatively, this is the 6th transition with 4th democratically elected
President and second re-elected President. Many thanks to President Buhari for
declaring  June 12th as the Nigeria’s real democracy Day making
Nigeria to overcome the “the pettiness of one man” (to quote the
Elderstatesman Edwin clerk) who arbitrarily declared May 29th as
Democracy day in 1999 and by doing so removing the specter of June 12 1999 .
  If that singular free and fair election of 1993 had not been criminally
annulled, we should be marking the 26th anniversary of democracy this year.
Sadly it is regrettable that the long period of military rule had done so much
damage to our democratic culture. Unlike in the past, elections have
become unnecessary wars of attritions. It’s time we had a quality control of
our democratic process. We have achieved much in quantitative terms. It is now
time to have quality democratic process. Authoritarianism has manifested itself
in Nigeria through years of military rule marked by absence of debate,
intimidation, disregard of civil rights, and non-chalance about due process and
the rule of law, by both the state and non-state actors alike. We must
therefore encourage a new Democratic culture that allows for unfettered abiding
faith in democratic process. Sowore stretched democratic process to the limit,
having lost elections only to call for feverish instant revolution ( whatever
it means to him). If all contestants in all elections return to protests under
what ever tag, (#revolution or #status quo)  to realize the goals
electorate had rejected at the polls, pray why do we need elections and
election cycles? Bernie Sanders is “ a self-described democratic socialist and progressive, American politician. He ran
during the 2016 elections. He failed to get the presidential ticket of the
Democratic Party which Hilary Clinton won. Nonetheless Sanders Bernie Sanders
ran a progressive campaign against economic inequality in the USA, raised
critical issues about “labor rights, supported universal and single-payer healthcare, paid parental leave, tuition-free tertiary education” among others. Indeed he
has written a book entitled “Our Revolution: A Future to Believe In” in
which he documents how he had put progressive ideas in American conservative
big business political space. The US Senator is already in the race again 
for Democratic Party ticket ahead of 2020 elections. He is  not Organizing
a silly misguided belated and diversionary Infantile #Revolution Now” protest.
  As a LP labour governorship candidate in Kwara state, I bear witness
that with voters’ cards under the banner of OTOGE/ODOPIN we had a revolution in
Ilorin. We  democratically retrenched PDP’s almost two decades of one
family/one person dictatorship and bad governance. Which means all we need is
abiding faith in democracy. Never again: no short cut to get people’s mandate
than through the ballot.  We  must certainly ensure liberty for
Sowore. But he ought to have been advised that having run for elections in 2019
and having lost, he should seek for people’s mandate in subsequent elections
not in an “infantile disorder” . Issa
Aremu mni