 In a chat  at the 
Presidential Villa  on Tuesday
while marking his 77 birthday,  President
President Muhammadu Buhari decries  the
present system which makes anti-corruption fight too slow for his liking .Excerpts: At 77, how do you feel ? Well I think I feel well at
77.  A lot of those at 77 are on crutches and I am walking on my two feet. What
is the secret, you look  stronger, more
agile? I think I come to accept the
realities of leadership in Nigeria, you can only try, it is a terrific country,
no matter what you do, there are people on daily basis that look for your
faults and go to the press, so you have to learn to live by that. What
is your birthday gift to Nigerians? Patience and patriotism, that is
what we see as rule, nobody can have his own way, we better accept the truth
that we are one Nigerians, we keep on building. God has blessed us with land
and people and resources. We must have the patience to exploit them and leave
something for our future generations. What
assurance are you giving to Nigerians as you execute your mandate? What I want to promise Nigerians
that I will work very hard on is free and fair election. All those that are
going to succeed in the National Assembly and the Presidency, they better work
very hard because I will make sure, using the law enforcement agencies that
elections are free and fair, nobody uses his office or his resources to force
himself on his constituency What
can you tell the corrupt elements in Nigeria and economic saboteurs? Well, like I said, I have learned in
the hard way. When I came in uniform, I collected those who were leading, took
them to Kirikiri and told them they were guilty until they could prove
themselves innocent. I  (set up in) almost
all the geopolitical zones committees to investigate them. Those that were
found to have lived beyond their means, the balance was taken and were given to
the states. But I myself was arrested, detained and they were given back what
they (had) stolen. So under this system which is supposed to be more accountable,
.. it is too slow for my liking, but I have to follow it. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.