 The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has
forged a formidable alliance with some key stakeholders in the Downstream
Sector of the Petroleum Industry with a view to stamping out the ugly
incidences of oil pipeline vandalism while ultimately sustaining the prevailing
sanity in the supply and distribution of Petroleum Products across the country. Leading a team of critical stakeholders to the site of
a recent oil-pipeline fire in Baruwa Community, Alimosho Local Government Area
of Lagos, Engr. Yemi Adetunji, Chief Operating Officer, Downstream of the NNPC,
said it had become imperative for players and stakeholders in the Industry to
come on board with the corporation in its effort to stamp out the ugly menace. He said the fire incident of 5TH December,
2019 which was immediately extinguished within 24 hours with subsequent
restoration of the affected line, was one ugly episode which must not be
allowed to fester, especially in the System 2B Pipeline Network which serves as
an invaluable corridor for seamless supply of petroleum products. He noted that last year there was a fire outbreak in
the same Baruwa community and this year two incidences were reported in
November and December, saying security agencies and the local community must
rise up to the challenge and secure oil pipeline facilities which he described
as critical national assets. The COO, however, assured that the Baruwa pipeline
attacks would not affect the current seamless supply and distribution of
petroleum products nationwide, even as he added that the corporation had
emplaced a reliable product supply mechanism to handle situations of this
nature. Mr. Aloga Ogbogo, the Executive Secretary, National
Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) said that the protection of oil
pipeline infrastructure should be the responsibility of every well-meaning
Nigerian. Comrade Salmon Oladiti, National Chairman of Petroleum
Tanker Drivers branch of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers
(NUPENG), affirmed the commitment of his members to work with NNPC to combat
the activities of oil thieves and pipeline hackers. He said PTD prohibited its members from partaking in
the illicit transport of stolen products because it views it as an act of
economic sabotage. The Chairman of Peace Estate Development Association,
Engr. Omojowo Adedeji, said that the entire residents of the estate, which
borders the scene of incessant attacks, fully aligned with the renewed drive by
the NNPC to stamp out the illicit trade in stolen oil within and around the
community. Alhaji Khalid Baruwa, the Bale of Baruwa Community
also identified with the push by the corporation to tackle the issue headlong. He stressed the need to fortify surveillance around
the community with clear demarcation of pipeline Right-of-Way.