President Muhammadu Buhari on
Wednesday in Abuja approved the deployment and redeployment of some new and old
Permanent Secretaries to different ministries. Mrs Olawunmi Ogunmosunle, the
Director of Media and Public Relations in the office of the Head of Civil
Service of the Federation (HCSF), disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja
Wednesday. She said the circular conveying news
of this development, which was signed by Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, the Acting
HCSF, stated that the handing-over/taking-over processes were to be completed
immediately. “Also, those of Finance (Special
Duties) and Aviation are to be completed on or before Jan. 4, 2020, while
those of Environment, and Budget and National Planning are expected to be
completed on or before Feb. 19, 2020.” The circular listed the permanent
secretaries to include: Mr Edet Akpan, Industry, Trade and Investment, deployed
to Ministry of Mines and Steel Development. “Mrs Esther Walson, Niger Delta
Affairs, is also deployed to Ministry of Power. Dr Abdulkadir Mu’azu, Mines and
Steel Development, is moved to Agriculture and Rural Development, while Dr
Mohammed Umar, Agriculture and Rural Development, is deployed to Science and
Technology. “Equally, Mr Olusade Adesola, Youth
and Sports, is deployed to Niger Delta Affairs, while Mr Gabriel Tanimu Aduda,
Office of the SGF, is moved to Youth and Sports. “Also, Mr Bitrus Bako, Science and
Technology, is moved to Petroleum Resources, just as Mr Afolabi Umakhire,
Budget and National Planning, is deployed to the Office of HCSF. “The rest are Mr Maurice Mbaeri,
Police Service Commission, who is moved to Police Affairs and Dr Bakari
Wadinga, Office of HCSF, who now goes to the Ministry of  Environment,”
the Acting HCSF stated in the circular. According to the acting HCSF, the
permanent secretaries awaiting posting include: Mr Olusola Olayinka, Budget and
National Planning; Mr David Andrew, Office of the HCSF; and Mr Nebeolisa
 Anako, Police Service Commission. Also awaiting posting are: Mrs Evelyn Ngige, Mr Aliyu Ahmed, Mr Tijjani Umar, Dr Nasir Sani-Gwarzo,mni, Mr Hassan Musa and Mr Temitope Fashedemi.(NAN) Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.