By Ibrahim Mohammed The Federal Government has ordered the release of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Sambo Dasuki and the convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, who have been kept detained, in spite of several court orders and whose detentions have generated widespread condemnations. Nigeria’s Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. According to him, the decision to release them was in compliance with earlier bail granted by Federal High Court Abuja, in the case of Sowore and several other courts, in the case of Dasuki. The two defendants are enjoined to observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land,” the statement read. Read full text of the Minister’s press release below: RELEASE OF COL. SAMBO DASUKI (RTD.)
AND OMOYELE SOWORE The Office of the Honourable
Attorney General of the Federation has reviewed the pending criminal charges
against the duo of Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.) and Omoyele Sowore. Whilst the
Federal High Court has exercised its discretion in granting bail to the
Defendants in respect of the charges against them, I am also not unmindful of
the right of the Complainant/Prosecution to appeal or further challenge the
grant of bail by the court having regards to extant legal provisions,
particularly Section 169 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015.
However, my Office has chosen to comply with the court orders while considering
the pursuit of its rights of appeal and/or review of the order relating to the
bail as granted or varied by the courts. In line with the provisions of
Sections 150(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), and in compliance with
the bail granted to Col. Sambo Dasuki (Rtd) (as recently varied by the Court of
Appeal) and the bail granted to Omoyele Sowore, I have directed the State
Security Services to comply with the order granting bail to the Defendants and
effect their release. The two Defendants are enjoined to
observe the terms of their bail and refrain from engaging in any act that is
inimical to public peace and national security as well as their ongoing trial
which will run its course in accordance with the laws of the land. I wish to reiterate again the utmost
regard of my Office for the entire judicial structure of Nigeria. This
administration remains unrelenting in deepening the rule of law and the
administration of justice in general. SIGNED ABUBAKAR MALAMI, SAN