The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, (ICPC) has been tasked to probe the dismissed officials of the National Examination Council, (NECO) In a statement at the weekend,
foremost anti corruption group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda
(HEDA Resource Centre) in a release signed by it’s Chairman, Mr Olanrwaju
Suraju asked the ICPC to carry out investigation on the dismissed NECO
officials. Seventy staff of the NECO were
dismissed by the agency’s internal system mid last month, following outcries
over forged certificates. NECO, established in April 1999 is
Nigeria’s second most influential secondary examination regulatory body. Prior
1999, the West African Examination Council, (WAEC) established in 1952
domimated the secondary school’s final year examination administration. The officials were said to have
forged credentials and were mandated to appear before the management committee
during which some of the staff allegedly confessed to the criminal act. This prompted the Governing Board of
NECO to  review the report and approved the dismissal of the affected
staff. Suraju said dismissal was not enough
and that without being backed by sanctions as dictated by law, a wrong
precedence would be set. He made reference to Section 25
(1)(b) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000, which
states that offenders if found guilty shall on conviction be liable to a fine
not exceeding one hundred thousand naira or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two (2) years or to both such fine and imprisonment. HEDA said that the NECO officials
allegedly dismissed are public officers and the Commission as stated in Section
6 of Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 is saddled with the
responsibility to investigate and prosecute offenders. Suraju said the reason for the
petition was that HEDA remains committed to ridding the country of corruption
and corrupt practices adding that the group is desirous of seeing
accountability, integrity, probity and transparency enforced across all levels
of governments. “We believe the allegations are
within the purview of the offences contemplated by the Commission as stated in
Section 25 (1(a) & (b)) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences
Act, 2000. We must not sweep this legal obligation under the carpet” HEDA
stated. Buttressing its position, it cited
section (25) which stated that “any person who makes or cause any other
person to make to an officer of the commission or to any other public officer,
in the course of the exercise by such Public officer of the duties of his
office, any statement which to the knowledge of the person making the
statement, or causing the statement to be made.” The law specifically stated in
subsection that anyone who makes  false, or intended to mislead or isnt
true in any material particular; or is not consistent with any other
statement previously made by such person to any other person having authority
or power under any law to receive, or require to be made such other statement
notwithstanding that the person making the statement is not under any legal or
other obligation to tell the truth, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand naira or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two (2) years or to both such fine and
imprisonment. Section 6 (a) of the Corrupt
Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 also states that “it shall be
the duty of the Commission – (a) where reasonable grounds exist for suspecting
that any person has conspired to commit or has attempted to commit or has
committed an offence under this Act or any other law prohibiting corruption, to
receive and investigate any report of the conspiracy to commit, attempt to
commit or the commission of such offence and, in appropriate cases, to
prosecute the offenders” HEDA  implores the Commission
to visit its powers as vested in Section 27 (1-4) of the Act, 2000 to
investigate this case being reported to the Commission. Section “27. – (1) states that every
report relating to the commission of an offence under this Act may be made
orally or in writing to an officer of the Commission, and if made orally shall
be reduced into writing and read over to the person making the report; and
every such report shall be signed or thumb- printed by the person making the
report and where the person is an illiterate the officer obtaining the report
together with a statement to the effect that it was read over and interpreted
to the maker” Also stated that “every report,
whether in writing or reduced into writing, shall be entered in book kept at
the office of the commission and there shall be appended to such entry the date
and hour at which such report was made.” HEDA further quotes section 3 which
states that where an officer of the commission has reasons to suspect the
commission of an offence under this Act following a report made under
sub-section (1) or information otherwise received by him, he shall cause
investigation to be made for such purpose may exercise all the powers of
investigation provided for under this Act or any other law. HEDA said the staff of National
Examination Council allegedly dismissed are public officers and the Commission
as stated in Section 6 of Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act,
2000 is saddled with the responsibility to investigate and prosecute. The group said “The above
allegations are made against public officers and we hereby recommend the above
report for diligent investigation to uncover the true position. The National
Examination Council is a public office and its record will aid the speedy investigation
and conclusion of the case. We hereby request the Commission to
collaborate with leadership of National Examination Council to aid further
investigation and prosecution of the alleged dismissed officials.” It said the petition was sent in the
spirit of patriotism and that HEDA remains committed to ridding the country of
corruption and corrupt practices. It added “we are desirous of
seeing accountability, integrity, probity and transparency enforced across all
levels of the governments” Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.