The need to boost broadband penetration from
its present coverage of 37.8 percent to over 70 percent in the next five years
is the pedestal for the new National Broadband Plan (NBP):2020-2025, according
to Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami. Besides this, the Minister said, pervasive
broadband penetration will certainly make Nigeria a truly digital economy. He
spoke yesterday at the inauguration of a 25- member committee in Abuja. The new NBP 2020-2025 is sequel to the first
NBP 2013-2018. The new NBP Committee has Ms. Funke Opeke, Managing Director/CEO
of Main One Cable Company Limited, as Chairperson with Dr. Bashir Gwandu as
Co-Chairman. Engr. Ubale Maska, the Executive Commissioner, Technical Services,
Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as the Secretary to the Committee.
Maska will be supported by four staff of the Ministry in the secretariat. The Committee is to develop a new National
Broadband Plan that will be the guiding template for the development of this
very important area of telecommunications. The Committee is to take a critical
look at where the country is after painstaking review of the 2013-2018 phase
and the status of penetration now. The members are enjoined to also examine the
challenges with a view to proffering solutions thereto. They should also look
at the position of growing and emerging technologies among others. The new NBP
has the collaboration and support of the United Kingdom (UK) Government. The inauguration of the new Committee was a
follow-up to the launch of the National Policy for Digital Economy and Strategy
by President Muhammadu Buhari, in November 2019. The Policy has eight pillars
among which are Developmental Regulation, Digital Literacy and Skills, Solid
Infrastructure, Service Infrastructure, Digital Services Development and
Production, Digital Society, Emerging Technologies and Indigenous Content
Development. The Minister told the Committee members to lay
emphasis on the third pillar of the National Policy which accommodates
broadband and data centre, key components for economic growth and promotion of
digital economy. The Committee’s work, he explained, will address significantly
one of the eight pillars and the remaining seven will also run as one of this
all-important pillar. “The work of this Committee will go a very
long way in supporting the national digital economic policy and strategy for
the Federal Government because digital economy is strategically dominating the
world economy today.” According to Pantami, members of the Committee were
selected based on their competence, integrity and professionalism. “In all
these, Nigeria comes first.” Ms. Opeke, who responded on behalf of the
committee thanked the Minister for the opportunity to serve and said the target
of the committee is to achieve, at least, 65-70 percent broadband penetration
across Nigeria in the next five years, adding that the objective is technology
neutrality for the right purpose. “The Minister has set the goal and I am sure
the NCC is in agreement,” Ms. Opeke added, saying “we will look at the work of
the last Committee and what was done, the prospects, the challenges that are
still there in order to come up with a plan to achieve the set objectives.” “I believe the objective is achievable with
sincerity of purpose and with hard work for these are critical services and
infrastructure that we need to bring to all Nigerians and we’re optimistic that
we can accomplish that goal. There is work to be done on fixed infrastructure
but the reality is mobile technologies are also progressing quite fast to
deliver very capable services to people.” “We see what is going on with 5G all over the
world, so we will address both at the Committee but I believe our objective is
not to favour one technology over another but to figure out how we can get
those critical services to many more Nigerians. So, we’ll be a mix of
technologies but the objective is not to favour one technology over another or
to be prescriptive but the right technology for the right purpose, the most
competitive technology that enables us to deliver services to all Nigerians,”
Opeke said. Earlier in his goodwill message, the Executive
Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said broadband infrastructure
remains one of the top priorities of the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU) to ensure people around the world have access to equitable and affordable
broadband, wherever they are and whatever the circumstances they are in. With
adequate broadband infrastructure in place, Danbatta assured that everything
else will fall into place. “The ability to deliver healthcare, best
quality education even to generations unborn, ability to streamline
transportation, meet up with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the
ability to transform the economy into a digital one,” he said, pledging
the commitment of the Board and Management of NCC, especially in the area of
driving the infrastructure that will ensure that critical mass of ICT adoption
in use will in time increase the level of broadband penetration in the country. Besides Ms. Opeke, Gwandu and Maska, the
25-member Committee also has representatives from the academia, NCC, Galaxy
Backbone, MTN, Google, Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA),
Defence Space Administration, National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU),
National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Nigerian
Communications Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) Limited, Association of Telecom Companies
of Nigeria (ATCON), Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), GSM Association, among
others. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.