Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has
welcomed the announcement by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari
ordering the release of #RevolutionNow protest convener, Mr. Omoyele Sowore and
the immediate-past National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki, from custody. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice,
Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN) today reportedly directed the Department of State
Services to release Col. Dasuki and Mr. Sowore from custody. In a statement by SERAP deputy director Kolawole Oluwadare, the
organization said: “This is a positive step by the Nigerian government. We hope
that this signals a change in direction in Nigeria towards full respect for the
rule of law, tolerance and greater openness by the government that would allow
citizens to effectively enjoy their constitutional rights and fundamental
freedoms.” The statement read in part: “SERAP has consistently called for the
immediate and unconditional release of Sowore, Olawale Bakare and other
prisoners of conscience. The President Buhari government should now immediately
withdraw all charges against Mr Sowore and Olaware Bakare and all others
detained simply for exercising their right to freedom of expression. They
should never have been charged in the first place.” “We also call for the immediate and unconditional release of
journalist Agba Jalingo and all those still detained on bogus charges, having
spoken out in favour of greater democracy, freedom of expression, association
and peaceful assembly.” “The government cannot continue to pick and choose which court
orders to obey. All court orders must be immediately and fully obeyed. It
should never be right for the government to selectively obey court orders.” “The government should have immediately obeyed court orders
releasing Sowore, Dasuki and others on bail.” “The President Buhari government must cease the
restrictions on the civic space, respect human rights, and immediately obey all
outstanding court orders including at least four judgments obtained by SERAP.
The first is the judgment by Justice Hadiza Rabiu Shagari ordering the
government to tell Nigerians about the stolen asset it allegedly recovered,
with details of the amounts involved.” “The second judgment, by Justice Mohammed
Idris, ordered the government to publish details on the spending of stolen
funds recovered by successive governments since the return of democracy in
1999, while the third judgment, by Justice Chuka Austine Obiozor, ordered the
immediate release of details of payments of billions of naira to all defaulting
and allegedly corrupt electricity contractors and companies since 1999.” “The fourth judgment, by Justice Mohammed
Idris (as he then was), ordered President Buhari to prosecute senior lawmakers
suspected of padding and stealing N481 billion from the 2016 budget. The court
also ordered President Buhari to “direct the publication of the report of
investigations by security and anti-corruption bodies into the alleged padding
of the 2016 budget.”