Attorney-General of the Federation
and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami decried illicit financial flows noting
that Nigeria has lost over 400 billion dollars to foreign havens, stolen and
expatriated by corrupt leaders and their foreign accomplices including
multinational companies. Malami made the disclosure
in his speech as he led the Nigerian delegation to the eighth session of the Conference
of States Parties to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption in the United Arab
Emirate (UNCAC), taking place from 16th to 20th December 2019. This is contained in a statement issued by Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu,the Special
Assistant on Media and Public Relations, office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, and made available
to newsmen in Abuja on Monday 16th December, 2019. According to the Minister Nigeria noted with great concern the incidence of
illicit financial flows which go through the financial systems annually,
particularly from developing to developed economies. “The quantum of these illicit flows which are majorly proceeds of crime
undermines local currencies, constitutes a threat to the economy, and enhances
the risk of huge amounts of money flowing into channels such as organized
crimes and terrorism”. He said the government has taken drastic measures to address the problem in
order to ensure that Nigerian financial institutions and banks are not used as
conduits for these illicit transactions. “To dissuade the perpetrators of this anomaly including financial institutions
who act as enablers, State Parties should ensure that illicit financial flows,
when tracked, do not remain in the custody of enabling financial institutions,
but should be transferred into escrow account, preferably in Development Banks
pending return to countries of origin,” he said. According to the Minister “bad eggs among public officials have been compromised
by multinational companies and our resources looted and diverted through
inflated contracts”. Malami noted that with the return of
democratic governance in 1999, the country has recorded significant progress in
the fight against corruption. “We have enacted legal frameworks and established several dedicated institutions
focused on preventing and combatting diverse manifestations of corruption”. He said the Federal Government has established numerous policies to promote
transparency and accountability and prevent corruption before it occurs through
institution of mechanisms that ensure data–policy nexus and inter-agency
coordination and established a robust access to information regimen in the Freedom
of Information Act, ensuring increased transparency and accountability. “We have committed to the Open Government Partnership and beneficial ownership
disclosure and adopted a roadmap for implementation. A few days ago we launched
two significant initiatives: The Open Treasury Initiative which establishes a
financial transparency portal to keep the public informed about financial
transactions within a specified threshold, on a daily basis, and a pilot
Beneficial Ownership register focused on the extractive sector,” he said. Malami said in realization the necessity of effective Criminal Justice System
for investigating and sanctioning corruption, Nigeria is actively implementing
the Justice Sector Reform Strategy covering issues such as International
Cooperation Mechanisms, Mutual Legal Assistance and reform of the Criminal
Justice System. “Proceeds of corruption and illicit financial flows constitute a huge chunk of
resources needed for sustainable development but are regularly diverted from
victim States,” he said. The Minister, therefore, called for simplification of evidentiary requirements
and other mutual legal assistance procedures as appropriate to enhance
international cooperation under the Convention. He said Nigeria believes that the
Conference of States Parties has a vital role to play in identifying the most
effective means of overcoming existing legal obstacles to asset recovery. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.