President Muhammadu Buhari Thursday in Kano
urged the Nigeria Police Force to uphold the trust reposed on them by Nigerians
by maintaining professionalism in their operations. Commissioning 628 Cadets of the Regular Course
Two of the Nigeria Police Academy, Wudil, the President, who was the Special
Guest of Honour, also charged the police to be gallant and courageous in the
fight against crimes in the country. President Buhari reaffirmed that his
administration would continue to work hard to make Nigeria safe and secure. Stressing that the Nigeria Police Force
remains the critical pillar of the domestic security agenda, the President said
it is important to have ‘‘orderly, disciplined and modern police officers.’’ He told the graduating officers: “As you
attain this milestone, I implore you to operate professionally, gallantly and
courageously as we continue to make Nigeria a safe and secure country for all
law abiding individuals. ‘‘You will soon commence your operational
duties. Therefore, you must always remember that Nigeria and indeed, Nigerians
have entrusted to you the assignment to protect their lives and properties. ‘‘This trust must be taken very seriously
while upholding the principle of civil policing leveraging on national and
international best practices. “On our part, we will continue to fund
and support the Nigeria Police Force and its institutions to ensure you deliver
on your mandate. This is why we created a dedicated Ministry of Police
Affairs,’’ The President, who congratulated the cadets on successfully
passing through the rigorous academic and professional training in the
institution, said the Academy was established to produce superior police
officers equipped with the knowledge and skills to police Nigeria with its
unique complexities. In his remarks, the Commandant of the Academy, Assistant
Inspector-General of Police, Zanna Ibrahim,mni, appealed to the President to
provide more financial support to the Academy to enable it cope with modern law
enforcement strategies. The Commandant also sought the support of the President for the
Police Academy Bill currently before the National Assembly, noting that the
proposed legislation would assist the Academy to fulfill the objectives of its
establishment. He announced that the Academy will soon introduce courses on
cybercrime, gender issues, criminal justice and administration, public
security, intelligence as well as peace and conflict resolution. He said the introduction of these courses will justify the
upgrade of the Academy to a university and ‘‘also contribute meaningfully to the
minimization, if not, the eradication of the security challenges facing the
country.’’ A major highpoint of the passing out was the presentation by
President Buhari of a sword of honour to the best graduating cadet officer,
Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Peter Alogo Joseph. The President also decorated a graduating officer, Lawal U.
Abdullahi, symbolically commissioning all the 628 cadet officers to ASPs in the
Nigeria Police Force.