Since assuming office as President
of the Senate on June 11, 2019, Senator Ahmad Lawan has practically
demonstrated at intervals that he possesses the grit to take the Ninth National
Assembly to record breaking heights under his leadership. Without a doubt, his long years of
stewardship as a lawmaker from his days in the House of Representatives down to
the Senate justifies the intelligence and experience he exudes particularly on
issues of legislation, and how same translates to good governance. Lawan’s stint as Chairman of the
National Assembly in the last six months paved the path for the implementation
of the Senate’s legislative agenda with very clear focus on securing a better
deal for Nigerians. As a legislator who understands the
dynamics of governance and the extent a cordial relationship with the executive
could be to Nigerians and the country, Lawan would rather pursue vigorously the
interest of Nigerians than involve the National Assembly in unnecessary rancour
with the executive arm of government. For critics who consider this a form
of weakness or being a ‘Yes man’ to Presidential requests, it is on record that
the Senate President, as a serving lawmaker under David Mark’s  Presidency
between 2007 – 2015, had a history of striking a harmonious working
relationship with the Majority party in the Senate at the time. As Chairman of the Senate Committee
on Public Accounts, Senator Lawan was never embroiled in unnecessary
confrontation with the Peoples’ Democratic Party-led executive arm of
government. Rather, as a member of the
opposition All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in the Sixth and Seventh Assembly,
he sought to demand transparency and accountability in government spending
through constant interface with Ministries, Departments and Agencies of
Government. For Lawan, finding a middle-ground
in the executive – legislature relations remains a sure way to go as against
the counter-productive path of feudalism. Stability
in the Ninth Senate While running for the Senate
Presidency, it would be recalled that Ahmad Lawan had severally harped on the
need for lawmakers to shun partisanship in the upper chamber if the Senate must
forge as a united front that puts nation first before any other consideration. So far, Lawan has walked the talk by
ensuring that legislators irrespective of political divide are treated as first
among equals. This played up on several occasions, particularly after the
confirmation of President Buhari’s nominees for Chairman and Members of the
board of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The Minority Leader of the Senate,
Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, following receipt of the NDDC budget by the Senate,
had kicked against any move by the Joy Nunieh-interim board to defend the
Commission’s budget before the National Assembly. According to Abaribe, doing so would
amount to violating the provisions of the NDDC Act which does not provide for,
or allow an interim board to defend the Commission’s annual budget. Despite political considerations
weighing in the balance, the Senate President stood with the position of the
Minority Leader who belongs to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by declaring
the interim board void with the confirmation of the appointments of the NDDC
board members. Another instance was with the
consideration and passage of the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production
Contract Sharing Act. Despite being sponsored by a
lawmaker belonging to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Bassey Akpan,
the overall interest of the nation was placed first with lawmakers across party
lines throwing their weight behind the passage of the legislation which will
earn the country over USD$500 billion in the year 2020 alone. The Economy Barely weeks after emerging the
President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan began the push for the country’s return to
the January-December budget cycle. At the time, his vision to put an
end to Nigeria’s deformed budget cycle was considered a somewhat lofty idea
that was practically unrealizable given the impeding bureaucratic bottlenecks
which made same impossible for over a decade. But sticking to his guns and relying
on his power of negotiation with agencies of government, a relentless Lawan
pursued vigorously his dream of strengthening that nation’s economy with the
support of the executive. For the first time in a very long
while, the budget was presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to a joint session
of the National Assembly on October 8, 2019. The presentation of the 2020 budget
in October signaled the end to Nigeria’s unpredictable budget cycle. Determined to sustain the tempo
already fired-up by the Executive arm of government, the National Assembly
moved into action and started work on the proposal before it. On December 5, 2019, the National
Assembly finally passed the annual budget for the 2020 fiscal year, a
development which gave finality to the country’s return to the January-December
cycle, and stands a historic achievement under Lawan’s sterling leadership. Just like King Midas from Greek
Mythology, Lawan seems to have a way with achieving legislative feats which
proved unachievable for previous Assemblies. Other milestone achievements in the
6 months leadership of the Senator Lawan-led National Assembly are: the passage
of the Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract Act, the
Finance Bill, 2019 and, of course, the critical Public Procurement (Amendment)
Act. Just as each of the above
legislations to a great extent determines the successful implementation of the
country’s annual budget, they were in the past considered the most problematic
when up for consideration by the National Assembly as was the Production
Sharing Contract Act which defied all attempts at amendment since its enactment
in 2004. However, with Lawan’s touch, the
Deep Offshore and Inland Basin bill, 2019 was passed on October 16, 2019 by the
Senate and later signed by President Muhammadu Buhari into law. Also, the Public Procurement Act was
amended and passed by the National Assembly to rid Nigeria’s procurement
processes of several obstructions which interfere with the smooth
implementation of the nation’s annual budget. On the problematic Petroleum
Industry Bill which defied passage by the Sixth, Seventh and Eighth National
Assemblies, the Senate President had last week assured Nigerians that the Ninth
National Assembly will do things differently to break the jinx with the passage
of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) next year. The upper chamber, according to
Lawan, will as a matter of urgency prioritizes the consideration of the
Petroleum Industry Bill alongside reforms of the Electoral Act when it returns
from the Christmas break in January. “The Petroleum Industry Bill was
first introduced in the National Assembly in 2007 but is yet to be passed in
its entirety. “The National Assembly will this
time around adopt a different approach to make the passage of the PIB a
reality. “We want to see a situation where
the legislature and the executive work very closely to have a PIB that will
attract investment into the oil and gas sector in Nigeria. “We want to create an investment
climate that will be competitive. We know some other countries have this
product; therefore we have to be competitive. We have to create an environment
where the businesses make profit. “This is a journey that involves
everyone. We want both government – and that includes the legislature and
executive – on the one hand and other relevant stakeholders in the sector,
particularly the IOCs (International Oil Companies) to work together to ensure
that this environment we are trying to create is an environment that will work
for all of us,” Lawan said. Defender
of Women’s Rights It won’t be a bogus claim to say
that the Ninth National Assembly under Lawan in comparison to previous ones has
shown very favourable disposition towards the protection of women’s rights with
the consideration of two critical bills so far that attest to this. First, is the Sexual Harassment bill
sponsored by the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege and under
consideration by the National Assembly. The bill seeks to prohibit all forms
of sexual harassment against female students by teachers in tertiary
institutions across the country. The bill, which has 27 clauses,
proposes up to 14 years jail term, with a minimum of 5 years, without an option
of fine for any educator who commits sexual offences in tertiary institutions. The bill, which has scaled second
reading, defines sexual offences as including sexual intercourse with a student
or demands for sex from a student or a prospective student or intimidating or
creating a hostile or offensive environment for the student by soliciting for
sex or making sexual advances. Other forms of sexual harassment
listed by the bill include grabbing, hugging, kissing, rubbing, stroking,
touching, pinching the breasts or hair or lips or hips or buttocks or any other
sensual part of the body of a student; or sending by hand or courier or
electronic or any other means naked or sexually explicit pictures or videos or
sex related objects to a student, and whistling or winking at a student or
screaming, exclaiming, joking or making sexually complimentary or
uncomplimentary remarks about a student’s physique or stalking a student. Another bill under consideration by
the National Assembly aimed at protecting the rights of Women in Nigeria is the
Police Act Amendment Bill, 2019. The piece of legislation essentially
seeks to end discrimination against women serving in the Nigeria Police Force
by expunging the provisions of Regulations 122, 123, 124 and 127 from the
principal Act. Sponsor of the bill, Senator Ezenwa
Onyewuchi (PDP, Imo East) said the Act under amendment prohibits women police
from drilling under arms; mandates female police officers to apply for
permission to marry, while the intending fiancé is investigated for criminal
records. While prescribing discriminatory
treatment – dismissal from service – for an unmarried police officer who
becomes pregnant, the Act also stipulates that a police woman who is single at
the time of enlistment must spend three years in service before applying for
permission to marry. “An analysis of the Police Act and
other regulatory/policy documents governing the internal and external workings
of the Nigeria Police Force reveals a preponderance of discriminatory
regulations and workplace practices that reinforce gender discrimination. “The examination of gender issues
covers various spheres of policy and practice ranging from language,
recruitment, training and posting; to marriage, pregnancy and child bearing. “Many of the Police regulations
particularly Regulations 122, 123, 124 and 127 are overtly discriminatory to
female officers,” Onyewuchi said. For instance, Regulation 127 in the
Police Act states that “an unmarried woman police officer who becomes pregnant
shall be discharged from the Force, and shall not be re-enlisted except with
the approval of the Inspector-General.” According to Onyewuchi, such
regulations of the Police Act were enacted in 1968, “at a time when the
societal attitude to women in the workplace was very different from what it is today.” He added, “There is no rational
justification for the imposition of these discriminatory provisions, since they
do not in any manner promote the efficiency or discipline of the female police
officer.” “Since a male police officer is not
subjected to the same inhibitions, the current regulations are inconsistent
with section 42 of the Constitution and Article 2 of the African Charter on
Human and Peoples’ Rights which have prohibited discrimination on the basis of
sex,” the lawmaker said. Education Driven by the passion to ensure that
Nigerian youths have access to quality education regardless of the geographical
zone which they belong to, the Senate under Lawan recently passed seven bills
seeking to establish tertiary institutions of learning across some States of
the Federation. The bills which were passed on
Wednesday, December 18, 2019, seeks to establish and give legal backing to
Federal Universities and Polytechnics. The passage of the seven bills was
sequel to the consideration of the reports of the Committee on Tertiary
Institutions and TETFUND chaired by Senator Babba Kaita Ahmad (APC, Katsina
North). The bills passed by the Senate seek
to establish the Federal University of Gashua; Federal Polytechnic, Orogun;
Federal College of Education, Illo; Federal University of Education, Kontagora;
Federal Polytechnic, Daura; Modibo Adama University of Technology, and Federal
University of Agriculture and Technology, Funtua. Bills passed and introduced by the Ninth N’Assembly Aside the Production Sharing
Contract bill, 2019, Finance Bill, 2019 and Public Procurement (Amendment)
Bill, 2019 that were passed, 185 bills have also gone through first reading in
the ninth Senate, while 32 other bills have passed second reading and are now
undergoing the necessary further legislative processes at the relevant Senate
Committees. As part of its statutory roles, the
ninth Senate confirmed 12 key appointments, including those of the Chief
Justice of Nigeria, Ministers of the Government of the Federation, Chief Judge
of the Federal High Court, President of the National Industrial Court of
Nigeria; and chairmen and members of eight Commissions, Services and
Corporations. Before adjourning on December 19,
2019, the Senate forwarded for screening, the Presidential nominees for the
National Hajj Commission, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Asset
Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCOM). The upper chamber also considered
and passed the 2020 annual budgets for the Nigerian Communications Commission,
the Universal Service Provision Fund and the Federal Capital Territory. …Ezrel Tabiowo is the Special Assistant (Press) to President of the Senate