Being
a Speech at the 14th Founders’ Day Ceremony of the American
University of Nigeria By His
Excellency Atiku Abubakar, GCON, Waziri Adamawa, Former Vice President of
Nigeria Delivered
at: Venue: The Lamido Aliyu Mustapha Commencement Hall American
University of Nigeria Main Campus, Yola. Date:  
Saturday, November 30, 2019 Protocols: Before
I go into my speech proper, may I please appeal to you all to rise and observe
a minute of silence with me in honour of my late Assistant and dear friend,
Mallam Umaru Njidda Pariya. Inna
Lillahi wa inna ilayhi raji’un Mallam
Pariya was the definition of loyalty and competence. I will never be able to
fill the void he left behind. We
cannot grow Nigeria if we do not invest in education. This is such a notorious
fact that it is almost a cliché. When philosophers say that an investment in
education yields the most interest, they were stating a truism for which we see
ample evidence in Nigeria. The
reason why we have insecurity is because we have poverty, and the reason why we
have poverty is because we have illiteracy. It is a cycle that we can only
break by educating our people. For the past four years, our education budgets
have demonstrated the fact that developing the minds of our people has not been
our priority. Two
weeks ago, a friend of mine, Prof. Anya O. Anya, who just happens to be a
former Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG), revealed
that Nigeria has taken more loans in the last three years than she has taken in
the 30-year period preceding 2016. Now,
how can we have such a monumental increase in borrowings vis-à-vis an unprecedented reduction in
investments in education? I
am a businessman. Perhaps the first lesson one learns in business is that you
do not take loans except it is to expand your business. There is no
justification for taking out loans to pay salaries; meanwhile, you are not
investing in your future generation. Nigeria’s
greatness is not as tied to her elders as it is tied to her youth. That is
where our investments should be focused on. Let
me give some facts and figures on the linkages between education and crime and
insecurity. Scandinavia
outspends every other part of the world in investing in education, with the
Nordic nation of Denmark spending an average of 8% of its Gross Domestic
Product on education. They are followed closely by Iceland, Sweden, Norway and
Finland. Now,
is it a coincidence that in every survey of crime and insecurity released by
the United Nations Office on Drug and Crime (UNODC) for 2018, these same
nations and their region are listed as the safest parts of the world as well as
the most crime-free states? I don’t think so. In fact, as someone who has
invested heavily in education for decades, I know that this is not a
coincidence. Instead
of doing many things and doing them poorly, what I am advocating for on this
Founders Day of the American University of Nigeria, Yola, is that the Nigerian
Federal Government and the federating units should rather focus on doing one or
two things so that we can do them well. Education
is the principal thing. When we get this right, we will get Nigeria right. The
easiest way, to make the most significant impact, in the shortest amount of
time, is via education. As
proof, I cite the fact that 2014 represented the year Nigeria invested the most
in education with a ₦493 billion allocation (then the equivalent of $3.3
billion) to education, representing 9.94% of the total budget. The
very next year, the trio of the World Bank, the World Economic Forum, and CNN
Money rated Nigeria as the third fastest-growing economy in the world. Again, I
ask, was that a coincidence? If
you think that it is, then how do you explain the fact that Nigeria slid into a
recession the same year that our education budget began to drop from their
pre-2015 levels? The total percentage of the budget allocated to education in
2014 was 9.94%, which dropped to 6.10% in 2016. It is as clear as night and
day. What
did we do right in 2014 to get such a bounce in our economic growth? I have answered
that question already. We increased our education budget, and for the first
time, it got to almost double digits (9.94% of the entire budget). What
I propose is that the Federal, States, and Local Governments should consider a
policy of allocating at least 10% of the total budget appropriations to the
education sector. If insanity is doing the same thing and expect different
results, it follows that the sane thing to do is that when you get a result
that you like, you are challenged to repeat the process, and in fact, improve
upon it, so that you can get the same or perhaps improved results. And
the results will come. The effects of education on the economy is not just that
education improves the employability of people; it goes beyond that. There is
documentary evidence from the Human Development Index that the United Nations
publishes annually, that educated people are healthier. Because
they are healthier, the proportion of their income and the income of the
government that is spent on treating diseases and sickness reduces, they,
therefore, have more disposable income to spend, which boosts the economy.
Healthier people are more productive. Because they are more productive, they
are less prone to crime. The multiplier effects go on and on. Why
am I saying these to you, graduates and undergraduates of the American
University of Nigeria? I am an elder, and so are most of those now directing
the affairs of Nigeria. If we are not able to make these changes, then you are
challenged to make them, for yourselves and your children, and their children’s
children. Very
sadly, we have bequeathed to your generation a Nigeria that is the world
headquarters for extreme poverty. The only way we can turn that around is via
education. The word coincidence keeps popping up today. Obviously, it cannot be
any coincidence that we are also the global capital for out of school children,
with approximately 13 million Nigerian children out of the formal education
system. Why
is it not a coincidence? Because the former global capital for out of school
children, until Nigeria took over, was India, which also happened to be the
previous world headquarters for extreme poverty, again, until Nigeria took
over. If
we can find a way to ensure that all Nigerian children leave school with at
least basic reading and writing abilities, we would have found a way to end
extreme poverty in Nigeria, which is why we must devote the bulk of our
resources to education. And
all tiers of government must recognize that there would be more money available
to the government, via an improved economy, which means improved taxation, if
they invest in education. I have been in this business since the 1980s. For
every Naira, you invest in educating a child, you add 5 Naira to his life
earnings. Tell me which other investment can yield that type of return on
investment? And
it should not just be the government. I have been spending some time in Germany
because of the Saudi German Hospital investment I am attracting to Nigeria. One
thing I found out in Germany is that private-sector corporations and
manufacturers have their schools and institutes. Vocational education is so big
in Germany and Japan that a lot of the German and Japanese labour force are
vocationally educated by the industrial sector, rather than by the government
or their parents or themselves. The
German government has cited the system, called the Dual VET system (Vocational
Education and Training), as the key to their status as Europe’s dominant
Industrial power. Via
the Dual VET, millions of German youths spend 50% of their educative time in
vocational schools owned by German corporations and spend the other 50% working
on the job. As
a matter of fact, more German youths (52%), pass through the Dual VET, than
through the conventional education sector. Why
can’t we have this in Nigeria? We do not have enough access to education. That
is why Nigerian parents spend $1 billion per annum educating their children
abroad, with much of that amount going to Ghana. With
support from the government by way of tax incentives and part funding, Nigeria
can ease her educational challenges by adopting the German Dual VET model. And
it is a win-win for both government and the Organized Private Sector in that
the educational boost will lead to an increase in highly skilled workers for
the real sector, which will boost the economy and reduce unemployment. I
want to see an MTN Academy for Telecommunications Studies, an Access Bank
School of Business and Banking Studies, a Dangote Institute for Agriculture and
Engineering and an Innoson School of Automotive Studies. Think
of the impact such institutions will have. They will ease the burden on our
public institutions and will enable artisans and technicians get the
certification they need to transit from being low skilled workers to medium to
highly skilled specialized semi-professionals. The
differences in the growth trajectory between Sub-Saharan Africa and Southeast
Asia is traceable to the educational disparity between the two regions. In the
1960s, Southeast Asia was on par with us. But they left us behind as they made
inroads into educating their people. We do not have to reinvent the wheel. We
only have to blaze the same trail. That
is why Aristotle said, “Those who educate children well are more to be honored
than parents, for these only gave life, those the art of living well.” If
anyone government wants to have the honour and moral authority, they must
educate the nation’s youth. Nigeria’s
challenges require critical thinking and disciplined implementation of
innovative ideas. We owe that to our youth and the African continent. We
are the largest Black nation on Earth, and it is our destiny to be a beacon of
hope in Africa and to the Black Diaspora. And the only way we can fulfil our
potential and live up to our boast f being the Giant of Africa is by educating
our people and unleashing their creative geniuses. I
thank you all for listening to me. And I charge you, the distinguished and
noble scholars of the American University of Nigeria, Yola, to go into the
world and bring these ideas into reality. Change the face of Nigeria and the
world for good. Reach for the stars and when you get there, send down a ladder
to take your fellow countrymen and women up with you. You can do it. I, Atiku
Abubakar, assure you that you can. Thank
you once again, and may God bless you all. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.