Sen. Ita Enang, Senior Special
Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Development Commission, has expressed
his displeasure over the shoddy work done on Calabar – Itu highway by the
contractor. Enang, who paid unscheduled visit to
the site on Saturday, said that the Construction Company, Julius Berger has
disappointed the Federal Government. He said that the Federal Government
two weeks ago directed the construction company to undertake palliative work on
some failed portions to enable motorists enjoy free flow of traffic during the
Yuletide season. According to him, Julius Berger had
informed him that the palliative work on the failed portions were completed. He expressed surprise that the
contractor did not do a good job in view of the volume of traffic that was
passing through the highway. “We came to look at the road, the
Calabar – Itu highway. “We were here two weeks ago and they
agreed that since this area is under their contract, we cannot bring in FERMA
or NDDC or any other invention agency to come and work on it, that they will
come and rectify it. “I see now that they have brought in
just laterite to pour on this place, without anything that can stabilise the
ground, and so the road has gotten bad, and worse than it was. “I will be going back to the Federal
Ministry of Works, so that the Controller of Work will come with Julius Berger,
(which) is the contractor, to at least agree with them that this is not good. “They gave the impression that there
has been a remedial measure, that people are passing on this road. “Yes, people are passing, it is
better than before, but right now what I am seeing here is not what it is
supposed to be. “The laterite they pour last week is
all gone, and there is no rain now, but it is washed off, so it is not
satisfactory. “Since this area is under their
contract and being under their contract, not much can be done, by way of
intervention, because they will be interfering in some other person’s
contracts,” Enang said. The presidential aide said that the
Federal Government was committed to providing good infrastructure to the
benefit of all its citizens across the country. He said that everything possible
would be done on the highway to ensuring motorists plying the road do not
suffer untold hardship. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)
reports that the Federal Government had promised to put remedial measures on
the Calabar – Itu highway to relieve the burden being experienced by motorists
plying the road. (NAN)