On Tuesday, the
President signed the budget signalling a new phase in his relationship with the
National Assembly – no more bickering. This should indeed be the standard
relationship and I recall that throughout the four years of President Buhari’s
first term, I pleaded for a more harmonious relationship between the two arms
of government. It never happened. Too many issues that could have contributed
positively to national development were blocked for the four years. This time,
virtually all requests and Bills from the President have received quick and
favourable response from the National Assembly. My worry is that the
relationship might be too cosy and the National Assembly could begin to act as
State Assemblies. If that were to happen, their capacity to contribute
positively to national development would be even more diminished than it
currently is. Reading the headlines
in yesterday’s newspapers, I was struck by the Daily Trust – “Uproar over N37
billion National Assembly Renovation Cost” focused on how Nigerians were
shocked that such a huge amount is allocated to renovation and why the
President did not even scream at the excessive cost. In an earlier epoch, the
President would have complained bitterly that that it’s a waste of public
resources. I am aware that the Senate President has explained that there has
been no major renovation since it was constructed twenty years ago and that the
whole place is dilapidated. There must be something wrong with me, I was there
recently and I was thinking, maybe in my ignorance, that they must have been
investing significant amounts to maintain the place because there did not seem
to be visible signs of dilapidation. The shock for people was that the edifice
was constructed in 1999 at a cost of just 10 billion Naira so how come mere
renovation is costing a massive 37 billion Naira. For this budget,
there was no crisis over constituency funds or padding and if there was I
missed it. I do recall that the President bitterly complained that so far 1
trillion Naira has been wasted on so-called constituency projects by
legislators and the ICPC has been investigating the massive corruption
associated with the projects. I was therefore expecting that the Executive
would challenge the funds provided for it in the budget but all I saw were
smiles and patting on the back. Has the battle over who writes the budget ended
and if so who is the beneficiary? Throughout the 8th
National Assembly, legislators have re-written the budget, not to improve it,
but to privatise it by infusing it with thousands of personal projects through
which they plan to make money corruptly to enrich themselves. In so doing, they
essentially debased the budget by imposing on it the logic of self-serving
primitive accumulation that has characterized much of Nigeria’s legislative
actions. While signing the 2018 budget, the President drew attention to the
following. That the National Assembly made cuts amounting to 347 billion Naira
in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and
introduced 6,403 projects of their own amounting to 578 billion Naira. The
President argued that many of the projects cut were critical and may be
difficult, if not impossible, to implement with the reduced allocation. In the
2017 budget, the National Assembly had inserted
1,170 new projects in the budget of the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing.
They had increased the budget from 364.2 to 586.6 billion Naira. In massacring
the budget of the ministry, they simply removed monies allocated to key national
projects such as the Abuja-Lokoja dual carriageway, the 2nd Niger Bridge, the
Mambila and Zungeru Hydropower projects and the Katsina Wind Farm Energy
project.  They then replaced these key
national projects with thousands of petty projects, mainly in their
constituencies. Essentially, the National Assembly had turned the budget into a
completely incoherent set of monetary allocations designed to boost the egos of
legislators and swell their bank accounts. The culture that has
developed in the National Assembly is that the legislators have been putting
projects into the budget that have not been designed, surveyed and costed and
simply putting figures that are meaningless because pet projects that have not
been processed are simply not real projects. This process embarked upon by
legislators simply turns the budget into an instrument for destroying good
governance because monies are allocated to “non-projects,” It is in this
context that some legislators go behind and collect monies they have inserted
for what everybody knows is a non-project. The question before President Buhari
has been what strategies he could deploy to resist this type of legislative
rascality. Returning to the 2018
budget, there was a big fight over the budget because many nationally/regionally strategic infrastructure
projects such as counter-part funding for the Mambila Power Plant, Second Niger
Bridge/ancillary roads, the East-West Road, Bonny-Bodo Road, Lagos-Ibadan
Expressway and Itakpe-Ajaokuta Rail Project had their funds cut by an aggregate
of 11.5 billion Naira from the allocations. Similarly, provisions for some
ongoing critical infrastructure projects in the FCT, Abuja especially major
arterial roads and the mass transit rail project, were cut by a total of 7.5
billion Naira. All these projects were replaced by personal pet projects. Virtually
every legislator added pet projects to build roads in their constituencies. It
is madness to build roads in your village that are not in any way linked to the
national grid because it means you are not improving transport infrastructure
but simply engaged in ego trips that does nothing to improve the movement of
goods and services. It is
shameful that the National Assembly increased its own budget by 14.5 billion
Naira, from 125 billion Naira to 139.5 billion Naira. Clearly, their concern
was to increase their elections war chest budgets rather than the development
of the country. In spite of all these anomalies, the President signed because
in essence, the National Assembly has established its “right” to mess up the
budget as they please. We got to know all these details
about the budget process because the presidency and the legislature were
fighting and releasing information. Now that the fighting has ended, we know
much less about what is going on. In the campaign for the current leadership of
the National Assembly, the Presidency came out strongly in support of Ahmad
Lawan who had the campaign promise of cooperation and against Ali Ndume whose
campaign manifesto emphasised independence of the legislature. The same thing
happened at the level of the House of Representatives. Nigerians are therefore
wondering whether the 9th Legislature is about collusion. My
expectation was that if indeed there is cooperation, it should be conducted in
a manner that would promote good governance not cover up and collusion. From the 4th
to the 8th legislature, there has been a contest about who has
ultimate responsibility for finalizing the budget with the legislators saying
they have the right and they were right. However, the problem is that there is
a budget process and legislators cannot just do what they like because they
have the power. There are foundational principles and budgets are supposed to have
their origins in the party manifestos and programmes of the ruling party. The
issues proposed are then processed into a three-year plan designed to achieve
set objectives that have been defined by the government. Based on these plans,
ministries, departments and agencies then develop multi-year projects that are
then processed through architectural, engineering, ecological etc designs and
surveys as well as costing. These are then broken into annual budget estimates.
When legislators disregard all the preparatory work that has been done and then
insert pet projects, they are destroying the national plan of their own
government. Even more serious is the fact that they are putting projects into
the budget that have not been designed, surveyed and costed and simply putting
figures that are meaningless because pet projects that have not been processed
are simply not real projects. It would be great to know where the conversation
is on this process between the Executive and the 9th Assembly. What
issues about the culture of our budgeting are being addressed and how? There is
currently a Bill before the National Assembly proposing the establishment of a
Constituency Development Fund to which 2,5% of the national budget would be
allocated. What is the attitude of the President to the Bill? Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.