By Chimezie Godfrey A coalition of Civil Society
Organizations has given the DSS and the federal government a 14- day ultimatum
for the unconditional release of Omoyele Sowore, and to address other issues of
human rights abuses in the country. The Coalition issued the 
ultimatum on Monday in Abuja during  a press conference tagged,”The
Troubling State of Affairs in Nigeria.” In a statement, The group decried
the rising cases of disobedience to court orders especially by governments in
power as witnessed in recent times. The group which represents a cross
section of Nigerian civil society actors who have played various roles in
Nigeria’s journey to civil rule, raised concern about two key issues which
include attack on the judiciary and attack on the freedom of speech and pattern
of silencing dissent in the country. They stressed that as Nigeria joins
the rest of the world marking “the Human Rights Day”, they  should use the occasion to review the
crackdown on the freedom of the press, proposed bills to curb dissent and a general
environment of shrinking civic space, among other things. In view of the foregoing, the group
issued a 14 day ultimatum for the government to address issues of human rights
abuses in the country. They said,”We demand the
President Muhammadu Buhari to show accountability as President and
Commander-in-Chief and address the nation on his commitment to the rule of law
and human rights. “The release of all illegally
detained persons by the DSS as revealed by Amnesty, Premium Times & Punch
Newspapers in recent months. “That the government obey all
outstanding court orders. “An investigation of the
officers who violated protocol and the circumstances leading to Omoyele
Sowore’s 2nd arrest. “The unconditional release of
Omoyele Sowore per his bail terms. “If these five demands are not
honored within 14 days – we call on patriots to join us as we occupy the
National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) offices across the country, as it is
legally mandated to protect rights and it reports to the Presidency. “May we remind this government that
disobedience calls to disobedience, and that disobedience of the orders of the
constitutional repository of the moral authority of arbitration – the judiciary
– can only lead eventually to a people’s disregard of the authority of other
arms of civil society, a state of desperation that is known, recognized and
accepted as civil disobedience.” They pointed out that state
disobedience leads eventually to civil disobedience, piecemeal or through a
collective withdrawal of recognition of other structures of authority. The statement was signed by
representatives of various civil society organizations which include Osai
Ojigho, Amnesty International (Nigeria) Idayat Hassan, Centre for Democracy
& Development (CDD), Auwal Musa, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre
(CISLAC) and ‘Yemi Adamolekun, Enough is Enough Nigeria (EiE Nigeria). Others are Lanre Suraj, (HEDA) &
People’s Alternative Front, Kola Ogundare, Socio-Economic Right And
Accountability Project (SERAP), Jaye Gaskia, Take Back Nigeria (TBN), Biola
Akiode-Afolabi, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) and
Transition Monitoring Group (TMG)