A pressure group operating as Northern Youths in Defence of Democracy and
Justice (NYDDJ) at the weekend, dismissed as laughable last week denial by the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) that it had dropped the
criminal charges against a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani
Alison-Madueke and other persons indicted for money laundering. Besides Diezani, the four others on the controversial charge are former
Executive Director of First Bank, Mr. Dauda Lawal, the Managing Director of
Fidelity Bank, Nnamdi Okonkwo, the former Executive Director of Sterling Bank,
Lanre Adesanya and the former Group Executive Director of NNPC, Stanley Lawson. The group which faulted the position of the anti-graft agency on the matter point-by
point, advised the commission to retrace its steps and go back to the spirit of
the EFCC (Establishment) Act, where the organization was envisaged to be one
that will be run devoid of sentiments and personal considerations in fighting
financial crime. It would be recalled that after the media, last week, reported that the EFCC
had withdrawn a 14-count money laundering charge against former Minister of
Petroleum Resources, Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke and four others at the Federal
high court sitting in Lagos, the anti-graft agency quickly issued a rebuttal,
urging the public to ignore the report, being false and misleading. In a series of tweets on its verified social media handle, the anti-graft
agency had explained that it never dropped charges against the former Minister
but split them to allow for a fresh arraignment of Alison-Madueke. It explained that the only development in the case was that the commission
took a prosecutorial decision to split the initial 14-count charge to enable
separate arraignment of defendants following a spate of adjournments that
prevented arraignment of the defendants more than one year after the case was
listed. “The charges were first filed on November 28, 2018. Since then, every
attempt to arraign the defendants had been frustrated by one excuse or the
other. “In more than four times that the matter was called for arraignment, it was
either Lanre Adesanya was sick, bedridden in a London Hospital or Nnamdi
Okonkwo was hypertensive and on admission in a hospital or Stanley Lawson had
had a domestic accident and could not appear in court,” the commission said. But reacting to the position of the agency at the weekend, the group which
claimed to have been following developments in some of the criminal charges
filed against prominent Nigerians in the last four years including the instant
case said that the EFCC was not saying the truth. In a statement signed by one Abba Yahaya on behalf of the group (NYDDJ), it
said “following the controversy trailing the present status of the case in
question, we are constrained to issue this public statement as patriotic
Nigerians committed to the Nigerian project, who believe that institutions like
the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, which are funded by taxpayers and
are supposed to be answerable to Nigerian citizens, need to be transparent and
honest about their actions. “From our findings, we make bold to say that the rebuttal by the EFCC is a
deliberate effort to distort the facts and mislead Nigerians as to the event
that happened in open court and which was widely reported by several news
media. “For instance, in the rebuttal, the EFCC laboured to explain that it never
withdrew charges against all the accused persons but that it took a
prosecutorial decision to split the charges. Whereas, the truth is that the
EFCC withdrew the charge containing all the original names of the defendants
and filed an amended charge retaining only the name of Dauda Lawal. “It is elementary that you cannot file an amended charge in court without withdrawing
the old charge. It is also elementary that as soon as the court is seized of
the amended charge, the old charge becomes non-existent in the face of the law.
If EFCC still claims that the charges against Diezani, Okonkwo, Lawson,
Adesanya and Mr. Otti are still in place, we ask them to show us the charge
sheet. “Again, in its statement, the EFCC claimed that its decision to withdraw
against all the other co-accused and retain only Mr. Lawal on the amended
charge sheet, was a prosecutorial decision taken in open court, following a
spate of adjournments occasioned by non-appearance of one or two of the
defendants each time the matter came up which prevented arraignment of the
defendants more than one year after the case was listed. “However, we wish to note that contrary to the Agency’s claim, all the
accused persons including the discharged persons were in Court on the last two
Court dates of 24th May, 2019 and 5th November, 2019, yet no pleas were taken
from them, rather, the agency, suo motu, withdrew the charge and substituted it
with an amended charge against Lawal. “From the foregoing, we state that the claim by the EFCC that in more than
four times that the matter was called for arraignment, it was either Lanre
Adesanya was sick, bedridden in a London Hospital or Nnamdi Okonkwo was
hypertensive and on admission or Stanley Lawson had had domestic accident and
could not appear in court is a story for new-born babies. “From all indications, we make bold to say that the litigative history of
this case has shown that EFCC ab initio never had the intention to charge any
of the discharged accused persons to Court, rather its sole intention from the
start was to harass Mr. Dauda Lawal, bring his name into disrepute and seize
his hard earned assets from over 30 years work in the private sector (reaching
the rank of Executive Director, in Nigeria’s largest bank) for reasons best
known to them. “We are therefore demanding that EFCC should retrace its steps and go back
to the spirit of the EFCC (Establishment) Act, where the organization was
envisaged to be one that will be run devoid of sentiments and personal
considerations in fighting financial crime. “It is our humble advice that witch-hunting, selective prosecution, cherry
picking accused persons and preferential treatment of suspects, will only
further confirm the widely held view that EFCC has derailed from its initial
mandate. “As for Mr. Dauda Lawal, he is a model and mentor for Northern youths and we
are confident that he is innocent of the charges brought against him and that
in no time he will be vindicated. “For the general public, we wish to state that we will continue to monitor
developments in this case and put out the correct information at all times,”
the statement added. Source Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.