…18
winners to emerge in the maiden award …
254 entries, 136 nominees, 54 finalists The
Nigerian military and Intelligence services, paramilitary, Police and emergency
agencies will be competing for the Maiden Security and Emergency Management
Award (SAEMA). The
Awards is an annual event envisioned to celebrate excellence in security and
response agencies with a view to creating a resilient and professional approach
in the management of security and Emergency situations in Nigeria. Headed by
the Chairman West African region of The International Emergency Management
Society (TIEMS), Air Vice-Marshal Mohammed Audu-Bida (Rtd), the Panel of Jury
has streamlined the forthcoming awards to 54 finalists of deserving institutions,
groups, individuals, officers and personnel. Audu-Bida
who was a former Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency
(NEMA), said it took a painstaking effort for the Panel to prune down the list
from its original 254 entries with 136 nominees selected and further reduced to
54 finalists while the 18 winners will only be announced at the event. He said:
“The 54 finalists will receive Certificates of Excellence for performing
excellently, while 18 Winners among them will be announced at the event to
receive the trophies for the 18 categories of the awards. “Some of
the Categories include awards for Humanitarian Services, Crime-Fighting,
Emergency Journalism, Cybercrime Prevention, Gallantry, Law Enforcement,
Intelligence Service, Emergency Management, Corporate Social Responsibility,
Public Information, Training Institute, Community Service, Volunteer Group,
Civil Military Relations, Crisis Manager, Private Security, Military and
security officers of the year. SAEMA
which comes up on December 5, 2019, at NICON Luxury Hotel Abuja will have the
Minister of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management and Social
Development, Hajia Sadiya Umaru Faruk, as the Special Guest of honour, while
the Keynote Speaker and Executive Vice Chairman of Nigeria Communication
Commission (NCC), Professor Umar Garba Dambatta will focus on the theme: 
“Leveraging on Emergency Communication Centres for National Security.” The event
is organized by Emergency Digest, a publication of Image Merchants Promotion
Limited in collaboration with the Centre for Crisis Communication and CISLAC. Other
members of the Jury include: Mr. Chidi Omeje of the Centre for Crisis
Communication, Mr. Hashim Salahudeen of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy
Centre (CISLAC), Mohammed Usman, a retired security operative, Mal. Ahmed
Maiyaki, a developmental expert, Senator Iroegbu of PRNigeria and Shittu Yunus
Shittu of the Emergency Digest. By
PRNigeria