As year 2019 comes to end on
Tuesday, 31st December, the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps
(FRSC), Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has urged Nigerians, particularly the motoring public
to sustain collective vigilance against the menace of road traffic crashes in
the country, saying joint effort remains the panacea for dealing with the
challenges of road traffic crashes. Oyeyemi stated this in his 2020 new year
message in which he applauded the critical road safety stakeholders for
sustaining the tempo of campaigns in the outgoing year with call on them not to
relent in the new year. According to the press release
signed by the FRSC Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, the Corps Marshal
expressed appreciation to the stakeholders for joining hands with the Corps in
the effort to creating safety consciousness among road users and living up to
the expectation of making road safety a collective responsibility of all. This
he said, remains the best guarantee to safeguarding public safety and creating
safer road environment in the country. Oyeyemi called for more efforts in
the coming year to consolidate on the gains of the campaigns in the outgoing
year in order to restore sanity on the nation’s roads. He reiterated the
importance of 2020 in ongoing global campaign for road safety, noting that as
the last year before the evaluation of the success of the decade long campaigns
for road safety set under the auspices of the United Nations Decade of Action
for Road Safety: 2011-2020, its success is very critical. The FRSC boss
therefore urged every Nigerian to remain committed to the ideals of the
campaign for the nation to stand out in the evaluation of the successes of the
campaign in the subsequent year. “Nigeria was one of the member
nations of the UN to activate the global road safety campaign when it was first
launched in 2010. Since then, the nation has remained active in its campaigns
through increased investment in road safety management and all the pillars of
the campaign, which must be sustained for us to gain favourable rating in the
measurement of our success story,” the Corps Marshal stated. “I therefore, urged all
relevant stakeholders and members of the public not to relent their efforts in
the coming year, for Nigeria to stand out among the comity of nations that
participated actively in the campaign,” he added. The FRSC spokesman stressed that the
Corps Marshal reassured road travelers of their safety and convenience during
the new year celebration and return trips, saying the FRSC personnel would remain
in their earlier deployed posts throughout the period. He however enjoined them
not to treat issues of road safety with levity, stressing that road traffic
crashes don’t just happen, but are caused and can be averted, if motorists
adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations. He added that all the FRSC
rescue facilities as well media platforms including the call centre would
remain open and at alert to serve members of the public during the celebration
and beyond. “For the avoidance of doubt,
members of the public should not hesitate to report road traffic crashes,
obstruction or other emergencies to the FRSC Toll Free line: 122 and tune into
the National Traffic Radio on107.1FM Abuja with the studio numbers: 09067000015
and 08052998090 respectively,” he disclosed. He further stressed that road safety
is no accident, but concerted efforts made by road users to obey traffic rules
and regulations and guide against what could be prevented. “Everyone must
therefore drive to save a life and with the consciousness of one waiting to get
home safely to meet his waiting family,” the FRSC boss further stated. It would be recalled that as part of
the counter measures against the menace of road traffic crashes during Yuletide
season with heightened traffic movements across the country, the FRSC
instituted the yearly special end of year operations launched at the beginning
of September to cover the ember months. This year’s campaign codenamed,
“Operation Zero Tolerance for Road Traffic Crashes,” heightened from
15 December with massive deployments of personnel and logistics as well as
monitors from the National Headquarters Abuja to the identified corridors and
all parts of the roads across the country. The operation is expected to last
till 15 January, 2020 when the Corps Marshal who oversees the entire operations
is expected to issue a stand down order.