The Nigerian Army has disclosed that it was  Major General Victor Okwudili Ezugwu who in fact “conceptualized, invented and designed” the Mine Resistance Anti-Ambush Protected Vehicle (MRAP). Acting Director Army Public
Relations,Colonel Sagir Musa said this in a statement debunking an online
report which erroneously claimed that  Professor
Emmanuel Ezugwu was the inventor of the vehicle Col Musa’s statement said, “The
attention of the Nigerian Army (NA)has been drawn to an online publication on
Nairaland Forum/Nairaland with a caption – “Meet Emmanuel Ezugwu: Military
War Vehicle Named After Him”. “In the light of the above erroneous
and misleading publication, the NA finds it necessary to correct the gross
misrepresentation and wrong assertion and to put the records very clear that
the Emmanuel Ezugwu referred to in the publication is NOT the brain behind the
Nigerian Army locally manufactured Mine Resistance Anti- Ambush Protected
Vehicle (MRAP). He said “The NA MRAP was indeed
conceptualized, invented and designed by a serving army General – Major General
Victor Okwudili Ezugwu the current Director General Defence Industries
Corporation of Nigeria. Major General Victor Okwudili Ezugwu NOT Prof Emmanuel
Ezugwu not only conceptualized and designed the production of the first ever
Nigerian made MRAP, but also diligently supervised the production from the
beginning to the end at the Army Command Engineering Depot (CED), Kaduna. He added, “For record, history and
posterity, find below a brief history of Maj Gen Victor Okwudili Ezugwu and the
MRAP: “Maj Gen Victor Okwudili Ezugwu was
born on the 28 June 1964. He joined the Nigerian Defence Academy Kaduna on 27
September 1985 as a member of 37 Regular Combatant and Commissioned to the rank
of 2Lt on 22 September 1990. “An infantry officer of high
professional rating, he served Nigeria meritoriously in ECOMOG/UN Operations in
Sierra Leone  and Liberia and Operation RESTORE HOPE in Niger Delta. He
commanded 28 Task Force Brigade in Adamawa State and 7 Division Maiduguri as
General Officer Commanding from 2015 – 2017. He was appointed Director General
Defence Industries Corporation on 3 June 2019. “An engineer by mere providence and
passion, he initiated the design and production of prototypes variants of
Light, tactical patrol as well as Armoured Fighting Vehicles by DICON-CED
Kaduna. In recognition of these feats, the Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen TY
Buratai rewarded his achievements by naming the first indigenous MRAP as Ezugwu.”