The National Coalition of Niger
Delta Ex-Agitators, NCNDE-A has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari, on
his 77th birthday anniversary. On behalf of the ex-militants, a
staunch supporter of the retired general-turned politician and now President
Buhari, Eshanekpe Israel, a.k.a Akpodoro stated this in a statement written and
signed by him, a copy of which was given to our coreespondent, called on the
nation’s leader to reflect on the good of the Lord in his life over the years
noting that only God could have spared his life till date in midst of all the
daunting challenges that may have confronted him. Specifically, the Coalition stated
that it was a miracle that the President of the Africa’s most populous nation
was alive after the sickness that ailed him at the inception of his
administration noting that but for the overwhelming goodwill of well-meaning
Nigerians, the President would been long forgotten. Akpodoro laud the President for what
he described as the pro masses policies and programmes of the All Progressives
Congress, APC administration led by him noting that it takes a man with who
enjoys the “special grace of God” to take those giant strides in a
complex nation like ‘our Nigeria’ and succeed but for his honesty, love and the
political to turn the nation around for good, the urhobo-born former warrior
said Nigeria would being a failed state by now. From turning the nation to a big
construction site in his drive for massive infrastructure to diversifying the
country’s economy in a major economic buy-back, the war against corruption
birthing a value-driven nation strong rooted in functional institutions in a
clear departure from the recent nation’s past, Akpodoro noted that the
President has left no one in doubt including the global community that he meant
well for the nation and her citizens. As the world felicitate with the
President of his birthday, Akpodoro stated that he should us the moment to
inaugurate the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC noting
that the delay in the swearing-in of the Pius Odubu-led board was responsible
for rumour mongering most of which he noted are damaging to the
administration. The Coalition added that the Odubu
and Bernard Okumagba led board was the most generally accepted since the
history of that agency noting that the new board is a darling of a large
spectrum of the Niger Delta people as it called on the President to take the
bull by the horn and set the ball rolling by inaugurating members of the board. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.