Rescheduled Guest Writer Session features Venezuelan and Nigerian Literature Some current issues in contemporary Venezuelan and Nigerian literature will be the highlights of the rescheduled Guest Writer Session of the Abuja Writers Forum (AWF), which holds on July 27 at the Aso Hall of Rosebud Suites (former Nanet Suites) from 4pm to 7pm and featuring readings, Q and A Session, live music and a raffle-draw for books. The Venezuelan representation will be through Ambassador David Nieves Velásquez Caraballo. A career diplomat, he was born in Cumarea-Sucre State in Venezuela, and had his tertiary education at Universidad Nacional Experimental Simón Rodríguez. Mr Carabballo has had tours of duty on behalf of Venzuela in Asia, Middle East and Oceania. He current tour of duty is in Nigeria. Venezuela is currently producing extremely heterogeneous and often experimental texts, which in some quarters is seen as some kind of boom. Ambassador Carrabballo’s talk will showcase this aspect of Latin American Literature. Ngozi Nd Alichi who will give the Nigerian representation, was born in Oguta, Imo state ( as Ngozi Scholastica Nkiruka Osuagwu) and holds a degree in English Language/ Literature as well as a Post Graduate Diploma in Public Administration from Abia State University(ABSU). She is s scholar of the Enterprise Development Centre -PAN Atlantic University . Ngozi Alichi’s fervour for creative writing is finally finding expression through the publication of her debut novel, “The Journey”. Hitherto she was an Advertising Executive with Dawn Functions Nigeria Ltd between 1991- 1997. In 2003 she became Head, Strategy and Operations @ Cynosure Communications Ltd, a marketing communication company. The company produced the vibrant and well received TV programme –TELEMART (a business magazine) that she vivaciously anchored and was aired consistently for more than a decade on NTANews 24 channel, with features on DSTV’s African Magic channel, ITV, AIT and Silver Bird Televisions at various times. Cynosure Communications Ltd also published Printmart Magazine and organized the famed Telemart Watch and Win Promo –a viewership loyalty event. In 2012, Cynosure Communications Limited initiated Nigeria of My Dream Schools’ Competition and Events; a moral and ethical reorientation program for children, which she drives with a crop of patriotic and well-meaning Team. The annual Event is now organized under her NGO –Global Youth Wellness Organization(GYWO). “The Journey” explores the challenges faced by Egobure Irondi, who though born in a village is determined to follow her dream of getting a good education. The debutant author resides with her family in Abuja, and is a member of some professional bodie s including Advertising Practitioners’ Council of Nigeria (APCON), Advertising Practitioners Association Abuja Chapter(APAAC), Associate Fellow African Business school (ABS). Network of Entrepreneurial Women- NNEW, National Association of Proprietors of Schools(NAPPS), and Unique Women International- a faith –based women organization. The Abuja Writer’s Forum also runs a weekly Critique Session,a regular Creative Writing Workshop series, and an online journal Dugwe (www.dugwe.com.ng)