The Commandant Air
Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) Air Vice Marshal Cletus Udeagulu has
reiterated the need for effective collaboration between AFIT and Defence
Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) especially in the area of Research
and Development. He made the call
during a courtesy visit by the Director General Defence Industries Corporation
on Nigeria, Maj Gen Victor Ezugwu and some of his management team AFIT at Air Force
Base, Kaduna. His words; “If we want
to go solo, you will have solo results, but if we go in group we will have
group result that will be highly impressive to well-meaning Nigerians and our
nation will be better for it” The Commandant who said
he has earlier visited DICON on assumption of Office noted that he was aware of
the endowment in the Defence Industry, stressing on the need to focus on the genuine
issue of comparative advantage between the duo because there was urgent need to
collaborate. He disclosed that
rocket propeller fabricated by AFIT Research and Development Center was
recently test fired at Kaduna, based on the directive of Chief of Air Staff, Air
Marshall Sadique Abubakar and that he would like it to be mass produced, hence
the need for urgent collaboration with DICON. “Most Defence Research
and Development efforts end at prototype level, we would not want the current
research efforts to go the same way because the end user must get the product before
the production process could be said to be completed”. The Commandant who
commended the DG DICON, for the success stories currently emanating from DICON
stated that the Defence Premier Industry has come of age and it was time to
move to the next level. “Am glad you are
taking the bull by the horns to change the previous unimpressive narrative
about DICON, “you are doing well, the world need to know what you are doing” Earlier, the DG
DICON Maj Gen Ezugwu said, AFIT had distinguished itself as the best among Defence
Institutions established in Nigeria, stressing that there are empirical
evidences of their research and development products to buttress that. “And let me
congratulate you for having your name appended on the first locally made MRAP
APC in Nigeria.  “You do not need to be
an Engineer to make a mark, you have high capacity to deliver”. The DG who said he
was aware of an existing Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between DICON and
AFIT before he assumed office, stressed the need to polish it and make it
operational because there were lots of benefits for both parties. He further
disclosed that the Chief of Army Staff Lt Gen Tukur Buratai had magnanimously
released fund to set up 3-D or smart factory at Command Engineering Deport
(CED), Rigachukun Kaduna to take care of tools and tooling needs in CED and
DICON adding that the factory would be made available to AFIT when it becomes
functional. “We need
institutions in Nigeria to help us solve our problems instead of looking unto foreign
partners only”. The DG also
advocated for technical team exchange who are vast in their discipline between
AFIT and DICON for quick and heart warming result in research and development
as well as the fabrication of military products. He lauded the
efforts of the Commandant for piloting the affairs of AFIT well to the benefit
of the nation because large chunk of foreign reserves are being preserve
because of local fabrications in AFIT.