Justice
Folashade Ogunbanjo Giwa of the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Thursday, October
31, 2019, granted three separate interim forfeiture applications by the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, involving monies and
properties. The
first involved the sum of $899,600 ( Eight Hundred Ninety-nine Thousand, Six
Hundred Dollars), belonging to one Abdallah Suleiman, which was forfeited to
the federal government. The
money was established to be proceeds of fraudulent activities by the EFCC. The
ex parte application for the forfeiture was moved by counsel representing the
EFCC, Ekele Iheanacho, who asserted that the Commission received intelligence
bordering on money laundering  regarding illicit funds  stashed in an
apartment, located in Wuse, Abuja. He said that based on the intelligence, the
house was searched and a safe was found that contained the money. He
told the court that investigations revealed that the apartment was secured by a
former secretary to the Bauchi State Government, Ibrahim Ahmed Dandija to store
his valuables but that all efforts to get him have been futile as he has
refused to honour the invitation to explain his connection to the money. Iheanacho
further revealed that one Abdallah Suleiman later came forth to claim the
money, stating that he engages in chartering of aircrafts through his company
Montes Auri Ltd and that the money was received on behalf of a company.
However, according to the EFCC counsel, investigations in the Federal Airport
Authority of Nigeria,FAAN, by the Commission failed to establish Suleiman’s
claim. Justice
Giwa granted the prayer sought by the EFCC and directed that the order be
published in a national newspaper for persons with interest in the funds sought
to be forfeited to appear before the court to show cause why the final order of
the forfeiture of the funds should not be made in favour of the Federal government
of Nigeria on December 4, 2019. Similarly,
the court also ordered the interim forfeiture of N150 million (One Hundred and
Fifty Million Naira), belonging to Nicholas Mutu Ebomo, who was the chairman,
House of Representatives Committee on Niger Deleta Development Commission,
NDDC. While
moving the application for the forfeiture order, Iheanacho stated that the
money was recovered by the EFCC in the course of investigating contracts
awarded by  the NDDC. He
affirmed that NDDC engaged the services of Starline Consultancy Services to
recover funds owed it  by oil and gas companies and that Starline sought
the assistance of the House Committee  on NDDC in the recovering of the
funds. The oil companies eventually paid the debts to Starline, with a total
sum of N10 billion being realised. According
to the prosecutor, investigation further revealed that Hon Ebomo received bribe
and kickbacks to the tune of over N400 million (Four Hundred Million Naira) as
appreciation for his role in using the office of House Chairman on NDDC to
facilitate the recovering of the monies. Iheanacho
said the money the Commission is seeking its forfeiture to the federal
government is the N150 million refunded by Hon Ebomo in favour of the EFCC
Recovery Fund Account. Justice
Giwa granted the prayer and directed that the order be published in a national
newspaper for persons with interest in the fund to show cause, why the final
order of the forfeiture of the funds should not be made in favour of the
Federal government. In
the same vein, the judge also ordered the interim forfeiture of  a plaza
and block of flats, belonging to one Goddy Nnadi, General Manager, Corporate
Services, Petroleum Equalisation Fund Management Board. Justice
Giwa gave the order following an ex-parte application filed by the EFCC through
its counsel, Ekele Iheanacho. The
plaza, a two storey building is located at Plot C46 5221 Road, Block XXIIC
Gwarimpa II Estate, Abuja , while the set of four detached bungalows are
located at Plot No 77, 525 Road , A Close, Kubwa Estate, Phase IV Abuja. Iheanacho
told the court that the properties are suspected to be proceeds of unlawful
activities. In
his affidavit, Iheanacho stated that Nnadi received kickbacks from petroleum
products dealers and contractors and thereafter acquired the properties to
launder the funds received. He further told the court that Nnadi has now
voluntarily pledged to forfeit the properties to the federal government and
therefore urged the court to grant the application against the properties. Justice
Giwa granted the prayers being sought with the previous conditions attached Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.