By
Ukpong Victoria So far, the Standard Organization of
Nigeria (SON) has been trying to curb the menace of substandard products
although it is a hard nut to crack. The
Standards Organization of Nigeria (SON) is a body given the responsibility of
ensuring that products manufactured within the country and products imported
into the country meet quality standards. This is to safeguard the health and
safety of the citizens of the country. This body works hand in hand with National
Agency for Food and Drug Administration Control (NAFDAC) and the Nigerian
Customs to evaluate products being brought into the country and produced within
the country. These organizations would have by now
solved about 55% of this problem if it were to be properly funded by the
government. If goods produced in Nigeria are considered to be quality rather
than the imported ones and majorly if corrupt leaders would stop stealing these
funds. Nigeria loses about N15trillion naira to
fake goods annually. Nigeria is ranked amongst the world’s highest market for
fake and substandard goods. Fake and substandard products spans through
all categories of items from drugs, electrical, electronic household
appliances, building materials, tyres and tubes, automobiles, machine spare
parts, food and machines to mention a few, still continues to find its way into
the Nigerian market. Nigeria’s recession has crippled a lot of
business activities causing producers to reduce in the quality of their
products. Goods are also springing up everywhere in the country, most without
authorization especially skin care products. These bodies should stand up to the task of
sensitizing the public especially those in the rural communities on which goods
to buy and how to confirm its authenticity amd traceability, that is, Product
Authentication Mark (PAM). Tighten their checks on imported goods at
the ports before it is distributed because it is almost impossible to stop the
harm after the goods distribution. The steady influx of substandard tyres,
spare parts and drugs has caused a great harm to the people of Nigeria. Causing
great loses to businessmen and a regular visit to the hospital by buyers. The SON, NAFDAC and Customs needs highly
trained personnel as activities of those involved in substandard products are
becoming more technical. The establishment and equipping of more laboratories
should reduce the workload on existing ones. This will enable effective and
efficient testing of goods. They should also partner with bodies
capable of helping to curb this menace NAFDAC on its own has intensified efforts,
introducing nationwide campaign in schools and plans to expand mobile
technology approach, takes fight to its grassroots through its Young
Pharmacists Group (YPG). The continuous proliferation of fake and
substandard drugs in the Nigerian market has generated increased concerns by
most stakeholders in the health sector. These fake and substandard drugs have been
considered a global threat to human lives, leading to treatment failure, organ
dysfunction or damage, worsening of chronic disease conditions and the death of
many Nigerians. According to available information on
essential medicine and health product information portal of the World Health
Organisation (WHO), the proliferation of fake and substandard drugs in Nigeria
has affected the credibility of the healthcare system, which can result to
harmful effects on consumers leading to illness, disabilities and even death. Also, further reports by the International
Criminal Policing Association (INTERPOL), revealed that one million people die
yearly from fake and counterfeit drug. Recent studies evaluated the quality of
drugs globally, which showed that 9.1 percent of drugs failed the basic quality
control tests, with an estimated 16.6 percent drug failure rate in Africa,
about one in every six pills. The Financial Services Advisory Leader and
Chief Economist, Project Blue, PWC Nigeria, Andrew Nevin, at the 90th Annual
National Conference of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) in Umuahia,
the Abia Stata capital, stated that Africa records at least 100,000 deaths,
arising from fake drug-related ailments, yearly, as counterfeits drugs account
for 17 percent of the generic drugs in supply in Nigeria. Though, NAFDAC, has advocated for the passage
of the bill, which seeks life imprisonment, confiscation of assets and
compensation of victims on conviction, which has not been passed yet by the
Senate. With nearly $1 trillion in drug
sales yearly, the penalty for counterfeiting is punishable by imprisonment for
between three months to five years or alternatively a fine of N100, 000 is
imposed. These bodies should do more to stop the sales
and importation of these substandard products so as to enable a better living
for Nigerians. Government should also encourage Nigerians to
produce quality products which should also be exported to other nations of the
world. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.