By Chimezie Godfrey The Vice Chancellor, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Prof. Charles Esimone has called for collaboration, through scholarship for candidates interested in postgraduate studies and other programs in the university’s center for migration studies. He made the call at the occasion of formal presentation of the university’s center for migration studies on Tuesday in Abuja. The VC expressed appreciation for contributions of all persons and institutions that had supported the development of the center. He disclosed that the University decided to set up its center for migration studies in order to respond, from academic perspective, to the local and global challenges and potentials thrown up by migration. “Nnamdi Azikiwe University decided to set up its center for migration studies, the first in any Nigerian University in order to respond from the academic perspective to local and global challenges and potentials thrown up by migration. “The attention the center has received so far bears out the need and timelessness of it’s establishment. “Let me express our appreciation of contributions of all persons and institutions who are supporting the development of our center for migration studies. “We solicit further collaboration and support from stakeholders through scholarship for candidates interested in undertaking postgraduate studies in migration studies in the center as well as facilitating exchanges with foreign Universities and centers to make the programmes of the center internationally competitive,” he said. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq represented by Mfawa Usani said that the program would provide migration managers and policy makers and high level personnels with skills to effectively address the multifaceted issue of migration. She revealed that scarce employment opportunities, corruption and poverty has forced thousands of Nigerians to emigrate every year in search of better quality of life. Farouq further gave assurance that government would continue to give more attention to migration management as evidenced by the creation of the federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development by Mr President. Other dignitaries who graced the event were the Comptroller General, NIS, the Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission, NUC, Ambassador of Switzerland, HFC, National Commission for Migrants, and Head of Delegation, GIZ, among others.