The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday, October 16, 2019,
presented a fourth Prosecution Witness (PW4) in the ongoing trial of the former
director general of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of
Nigeria, SMEDAN, Umar Bature Masari, before Justice Okon Abang, of the Federal
High Court, Abuja. Masari
is facing prosecution for fraud, money laundering and gratification in an amended
22-count charge to the tune of N108million when he was first arraigned before
the trial Judge on April 10, 2019 on a 17-count charge. At
the resumed hearing, the witness, a civil servant with SMEDAN, Abu Ozigi, while
being led in evidence by prosecution counsel, E.E. Iheanacho, told the court
that he knew the defendant well as the former director general of SMEDAN, and
had worked with him since April 11, 2005. He
said they worked together in executing specific projects through SMEDAN capital
allocation and zonal intervention programmes, which were basically constituency
projects, located in the various senatorial districts and federal
constituencies. “We
do this through capacity building and facilitating their (national legislators)
access to the resources required for their development such as work space,
equipment and machinery”, he said. “We
undertake their responsibilities by executing specific projects through SMEDAN
capital allocation and zonal intervention programmes which are basically
constituency projects located in the various senatorial districts and federal
constituencies.” Giving
his evidence, he stated that on November 27, 2014, that the defendant who was
his boss invited him to his office and told him that he needed to give money to
honourable members, namely: Honorable Abubakar Wambai, and late Engineer
Anthony Madawatti and he volunteered his company, Kike Engineering Services
Ltd, bank account details and that the following day the sum of N9million was
transferred to the account. According
to the Ozigi, his boss, the defendant instructed him to transfer N3million to
the late Honorable Madawatti, and N2, 850,000.00 (Two Million, Eight Hundred
And Fifty Thousand Naira), only to Honorable Abubakar Wambai, who had earlier
told him to retain N150, 000 (0ne Hundred and Fifty Thousand Naira), only,
adding that the defendant later told him to transfer the balance of N3million
back to the defendant’s account. Ozigi
also told the court that he knew Honourable Madawatti and Honourable Wambai
prior to the instructions given to him by the defendant and added that they
were frequent visitors to their office just like many other members of the
National Assembly. After
the cross-examination of the witness by the defence counsel, M.A. Magaji, the
trial judge adjourned the case to November 4, 2019, for continuation of trial.(EFCC
Press Release) Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.