As no
nation on earth is truly endowed with an abundance of human and natural resources,
the need to look beyond national boundaries to make up for these essential
economic wants becomes inevitable. Throughout the history of mankind, nations
have struggled among themselves to shore up their internal resources from
external sources through military conquest, colonialism and diplomacy. To ease
the pressure among its constituents peoples over the struggle for its meagre
internally endowed resources and the excruciating condition of economic wants,
European nations will explore other parts of the world for extra sources of
convertible to revenue resources. Beginning from the 15th century,
European nations will navigate the great waters of the earth in search of
viable external sources of both human and natural resources. This search will
lead to the discovery of new lands in America, Africa and Asia pacific that
were explored, expropriated through military conquest and exploited for their
rich human and natural resources. These
newly acquired overseas territories will usher into continental Europe, a
period of national prosperity from increased access to vast extra sources of
human and natural resources. The human resources needed to work on the vast
agricultural and mineral resources of the New World that was the Americas, and
convert same to enormous wealth of nation for the now emergent European powers
were sourced from Africa through the trans-Atlantic human transhipment. The
advent of the industrial revolution in 18th century Great Britain,
the subsequent decline of slave trade under a British sanctioned abolition and
the rise of legitimate trade will result into the colonization of Africa, the
Americas and Asia-Pacific regions by European powers. From this period, Africa
will emerge the frontline territory of economic playground for European
nations. The fierce competition among rival European powers to acquire more
territories beyond the coastal areas on the shores of the Atlantic and
penetrate deeper into interior of the continent, will result into the scramble
for Africa. Following a diplomatic resolution of conflicting territorial
interests among rival European powers at the Berlin conference of 1885, at the
instance of German statesman Otto Von Bismarck, all of continental Africa
except for two pre-existing nations of Ethiopia and Liberia will be shared and possessed
as overseas territories for several decades into the second quarter ofthe20th
century. The 19th
century scramble for Africa will not be the last. Following flag independence
granted most of the newly carved out countries in Africa, their fledging
economies remained largely dependent of their colonial masters and the
expertise of their legacy corporate entities operating in the mostly earth
mineral exploitation industries. The end of the Second World War in 1945 and
the subsequent portioning of defeated Germany into East and West in 1961 with
the erection of a physical wall across the historic city of Berlin into two
spheres of politico-economic ideological bloc between victorious but now rival
allied nations of the United States [capitalist] and Soviet Union [communist],
will have a reverberating economic consequence across the globe. As the world
entered a cold war era with a sharp polarisation into East [Soviet Communist]
bloc and West [US Capitalist] bloc, African countries that just attained flag
independence will once more be caught up in the whirlwind of struggle for
dominance by rival world powers. The
erection of the Berlin wall will signal the beginning of the cold war era with
a second scramble for Africa as a direct consequence but this time not for the
purpose of direct re-colonization. The second scramble for Africa will be a
race between rivals Soviet Union and the United States for politico-economic
alliances with African countries that are strategic to the advancement of their
national security as well as economic interests. In the
third scramble for Africa, the German city of Berlin will feature as
significantly as it did in the first and second. If the erection of the Berlin
wall in 1961 signalled the beginning of the cold war era, its fall in 1989
brought it to an end. The fall of the Berlin wall and the re-unification of
Germany, which was quickly followed by the eventual collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991, signalled the triumph of capitalism over communism. Thenceforth,
the new world politico-economic order was reshaped a long a unipolar power bloc
of modern capitalist mercantilism. The concept of modern capitalist
mercantilism, which seeks to grow the wealth of nations by the mechanism of an
imbalance multilateral trade relationship between the developed and undeveloped
world has triggered a renewed scramble for Africa under the guise of Foreign
Direct Investments, FDIs. Interestingly,
Europe and America will not be the major drivers of the third scramble for
Africa. The current players on the African turf are the economies of Asia; China,
a country that was once humiliated by European powers, Japan, a defeated nation
in the Second World War and India, a former British colony. These nations have
learnt from European and American powers, the economics of national wealth
creation through the mechanism of capitalist mercantilism by strategic
geo-political positioning in the fierce race for global resources. In addition
to flooding African markets with manufactured consumer goods through massive
exports and a very predatory form of Foreign Direct Investments that targets
Africa’s most vital mineral resources; these new economic masters of the
African continent appropriate large swaths of land and exploit same for the
benefits of their fledging industries at home. And when they set up industries
in Africa, it is usually for the purpose of manufacture of locally consumed
goods mostly paid for by host country’s meagre revenue from rents and royalties
of mineral exploration in further depression of balance of trade to the
disadvantage of African countries. This most vicious form of exploitation has
pushed African countries deeper into the abyss of underdevelopment with poverty
and mounting debt, while the so-called investor nations phenomenally grow their
national wealth in geometric proportions. Whereas,
the first and second scramble for Africa, which resulted into colonialism and
neo-colonialism of the African continent, was done without consultation of the
constituent peoples, this time around the third scramble is being done with the
full participation of the African people. Posturing as friends and development
partners, Africa’s new economic masters now routinely summon African leaders to
such events as Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, Tokyo International
Conference on African Development and India-Africa Forum Summit.  If ancient African rulers were not on the
table in 1885 at the Berlin conference where their kingdoms were carved up
among European colonial masters, their modern day descendants are present on
the table at the different conferences/summits in Beijing, Tokyo and New Delhi,
where they willingly exchange their economic sovereignty for aid and loans. Unfortunately,
Nigeria has learnt nothing from its pre-colonial and post-colonial experiences.
That Nigeria gleefully heeded the recent summons of Russia, the latest entrant
into the race for Africa’s resources and markets to a Chinese style
Russia-Africa summit in Sotchi is indicative of its failure to appreciate the
real economic motives of these so-called development
partners in the contemporary times.  Nominally
known as the giant of Africa because of its size and population but in a
reality a big for nothing never do well country, Nigeria is the crown jewel in
the third scramble for Africa. Plagued by sustained acute leadership failure, Nigeria’s
considerable mineral deposits and nearly 200 million people are an investor’s
delight. Nigeria is particularly made vulnerable to exploitation by preying
external economic scavengers by its inability to evolve a cohesive national
agenda for global engagement from a disparate array of conflicting local
interests resulting from seemingly irreconcilable internal contradictions along
ethno-geographic fault lines. Nigeria lacks a strong economic oriented and
realist foreign policy thrust that allows it access to a larger share of global
resources but is strong on the politics of internal resource sharing through
zoning and rotation of political leadership positions. Consequently, Nigeria
will continue to be scrambled along with other African countries as they remain
at the bottom of the global economic food chain. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.