By Chimezie Godfrey Nigeria’s  Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Salihi
Magashi(rtd) has said that the country recognizes and appreciates the
sacrifices of the nation’s fallen heroes, veterans, and Armed forces.He  noted  that they  face daunting challenges and have laid down
their lives in exercise of their mandate of protecting the territorial
integrity of the country against internal and external aggression. Magashi in Abuja on Friday during
the occasion of the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration said that
members of the Armed Forces have paid the supreme sacrifice and sustained
varying degrees of injuries in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East
as well as tackling other internal and security problems in the North West and
other parts of the country. He disclosed that their
sacrifices have led to the return of normalcy and relative peace in the North
East with the return of civil institutions and most of the internally displaced
persons to their ancestral homes. He said, “Annually, the country
through the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration recognizes and appreciates
the sacrifices of our fallen heroes, veterans and Armed forces. “It is the desire of government
that this act of remembrance be implanted in the hearts of all Nigerians so
that we can on daily basis act in ways that show our appreciation. “We owe it a duty to give
consideration to the plight of the wives of the fallen heroes. “We appreciates the works of some
Non-Governmental Organizations that have catered for these categories of
citizens, “It expected that more of such
organizations will rise to the challenges of addressing the needs of these
special Nigerians. “The efforts of the services at
providing scholarship for the eligible children of their personnel who died in
active service up to tertiary level can be augmented by corporate organizations
operating in Nigeria to capture dependants outside the official coverage net. “This can be considered as a
worthy corporate social responsibility initiative.” He further disclosed that the
Federal and State governments are also involved in rebuilding public
institutions and communities affected by the long-drawn war on insurgency. “Thankfully, some corporate
organizations whose contribution we sincerely appreciate have lent their
support in concrete terms to rebuilding /resettlement process of the war
affected citizens. “We wish to appreciate and
applaud these organizations and call on other well-meaning corporate bodies and
citizens to also contribute their quota to ease the burden of our affected
compatriots,” he said. He described the Armed forces remembrance
day or veterans day as a very important day celebrated by countries globally. The Minister said that the event
heralds the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, which will be marked by other
activities which includes Emblem Launch by Mr President, the Nigerian Legion
Humanitarian Day, Religious services, Wreath Laying Ceremony, and the review of
the Nigerian Legion Act, among others, between Wednesday 16th of
October and Wednesday 15 January 2020.