Former Senate president Ken Nnamani has urged old students associations to support their alma maters in the area of infrastructure development and maintenance of facilities. Nnamani gave the advice at the 8th National Annual Dinner of the Government College Ughelli Old Boys Association (GCUOBA) in Abuja. He said that with the success stories recorded from the school’s past students in their various endeavours, it was important for them to help restore the glory of the institution. The former senate president, who was also the chairman of the occasion, said that it would be unfair if they forget the school that contributed to their individual successes. “A stream that does not forget its source, never runs dry. I urge you, all, to support your alma mater in the best way that you can,” he said. In her keynote address, Prof. Joy Ogwu, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, urged Nigerians to preserve the education sector and ensure that proper morals are imbibed among students. Ogwu, who spoke on the topic ‘Exam Malpractice: Curtailing the Epidemic in the National Interest’, called on parents and teachers to work together to end the menace. She said that undue emphasis on certification led many students and parents to get involved in examination malpractice. She noted that the development had resulted in raising ill- equipped students, lack of proper supervision, poor teaching and learning environment as well as parental pressure. “We now have a society where people want to pay and bribe their way to get a certificate. “Some people attribute it to economic factor, but I believe that we have no excuse. “We will not have proper education until the authority of our teachers, principals, supervisors is questioned,” she said. Mr Charles Majoroh, President General Worldwide of the association, said that the occasion was meant to discuss contemporary issues in the management of public schools and social values. “As a public school, it becomes clear that government alone can not adequately maintain or repair the school’s facilities. “That is why the association, with assistance from corporate bodies interested in the  development of the mind of the youths at the teen years, is raising funds to fix one facility or the other in the school. “This will be our contribution to the success of the institution that contributed to our success, “he said. Government College, Ughelli was founded in 1945 and has produced distinguished alumni that include Nigeria’s former Permanent Representative to the United Nations Amb. B.A Clark, Prof J.P Clark and Prof Olu Akinyanju. Others are Mr. Sam Amuka, Publisher of Vanguard Newspapers, Guy Otobo, Prof. Itse Sagay, Prof. Oyewale Tomori and Prof. Omagbemi Omatete. (NAN) Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.