Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir
El-Rufai has reiterated his commitment to give necessary support to Defence
Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) for it to fully achieve the dreams of
its founding fathers. He made the remark during a courtesy
visit to his office by the Director General Defence Industries Corporation of
Nigeria (DICON), Maj Gen Victor Ezugwu. The  Governor said he was delighted to know that
DICON was entering into partnership with Sur Corporatewear of Turkey to produce
garment for the Armed Forces of Nigeria, stressing that it was equally more
heartwarming that the garment factory would be located in Kaduna. His words; “Precisely 3 years ago,
Kaduna State wanted to revive its textile factory and have even sought the
commitment of Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Interior because we targeted
the Armed Forces and Police and other agencies as end-user but we cannot
explain what happened along the line”. He however said he was glad that something similar will be taken off in Kaduna
stressing that he would be willing to play the role of advocate to reach
Ministry of Interior for the agencies under it to patronize this factory when
fully operational. “Let us know whatever support you need in terms of expansion; I know you will
not have problem in terms of skilled manpower to work in the factory because
Kaduna has a ready pool you can draw from.” Mallam El-Rufai further expressed delight about 1000 jobs coming to Kaduna for
a start, adding that he was also happy to know that the Chief Executive Officer
of SUR Corporatewear was conceptualizing other investments in Kaduna
State. Earlier, the DG DICON Maj Gen Victor
Ezugwu who said the joint partnership between DICON and SUR Corporatewear
percent shares of profit between the duo expressed optimism that the garment
factory will impact on Kaduna people positively, especially local farmers who
are into cotton farming. He further disclosed that SUR Corporatewear was coming to invest about 18
Million Dollars into the factory which would be completed under one year adding
that by 2021, all military garment would be sourced locally from DICON-SUR
Corporatewear factory. Speaking further, he noted that besides the partnership with Sur-Corporate
wear, DICON is also collaborating with Command Engineering Depot, Rigachikun to
produce combat vehicles for the Nigerian Army, adding that about 10 units of
armor plated vehicles would be launched soon, all fabricated with 70% local
content by ingenuous Nigerians some of who were brought from Ahmadu Bello
University, Zaria. His words: “Nigeria has the capacity to take its destiny into its own hands by
fabricating military products that would be in accordance with best global
standard with lesser cost having diligently taken the comparative cost
analysis. The DG who further noted that DICON
configured vehicles for operations, solicited the patronage of Kaduna state
Government at a subsidized price, adding that DICON was also in the position to
meet the ballistic vest and helmets need of the state security outfit. He commended Governor El-Rufai for the giant strides he is taking in terms of infrastructural developments that are impacting positively on Kaduna people, stressing that he had seen remarkable changes under his administration because he was once a Cadet in Nigerian Defence Academy and also served in many places within the state.