The Bureau
of Public Enterprises (BPE) has so far contributed N135bn out of the N220bn it
is expected to generate for the 2019 fiscal budget, Director General of the
privatisation agency, Mr. Alex A. Okoh has revealed. Speaking at
an interactive forum with the Senate Committee on Privatisation at the National
Assembly on Wednesday, October 16, 2019, the Director General said the Bureau
is expected to contribute the N220bn in line with the Medium-Term Framework
submitted by the Federal Government to the National Assembly for 2019 budget. He said the
N135bn was generated through the sale of the Afam Electricity Generation
Company (Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Limited),re-privatisation of
the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) and sale of 29 percent Federal
Government’s  shares in the Geregu Power plant. A press
release by Amina  Tukur Othman,Head, Public Communications said, Okoh while calling on the National
Assembly to critically look at the funding framework for the Bureau, expressed
optimism that BPE would meet its target for the 2020 fiscal budget. He regretted
that out of the N2bn allocated to the Bureau yearly from the national purse for
its operations, N1.5bn is for staff emoluments through the Integrated Pay role
and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) and “of the N500m that is supposed to
come to the Bureau for overheads and capital expenditure, only about 15 percent
of the amount is eventually released to the Bureau against what is obtained in
other revenue generating agencies of the Federal Government”. The
Director General advised the Federal government to give consideration to the
privatisation of federal government-owned enterprises to fund the
N10.33trillion 2020 budget, with a total deficit of N2.28trillion and decried a
situation where the state-owned enterprises place an undue pressure on the lean
public purse by way of subventions. He
noted that there was no justification for the ritual of yearly budget deficit
with local and external borrowings when there were national assets that could
be converted into liquidity to fund the government’s fiscal programmes. “It
is not good to keep borrowing on a yearly basis to finance deficit budget when
a lot of very valuable national assets are lying fallow and moribund.Proceeds
from outright privatisation or concession of the moribund assets, should serve
as veritable sources in funding the  budget since the assets are more or
less, becoming national liabilities”, he added. Earlier,
the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Privatisation,Chief Theodore Orji had
reiterated  the importance of privatisation as the key driver of the
Nigerian economy and pledged the support of the Committee to the Bureau. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.