(Army Press Release)Troops of the
Nigerian Army continue to raid the hideouts of criminal insurgents, bandits,
kidnappers and other criminal elements nationwide with remarkable successes.
One of such operations involved troops of 342 Artillery Regiment. The troops,
while acting on credible intelligence raided a suspected kidnappers’ den at
Ihie Community in Ohaji/Egbema LGA of Imo State. Two suspects, Umah Kingsley
and Miss Chukwu Happiness were arrested. Items recovered during the operation
include 2 empty magazines and a locally fabricated gun. A press release by  Colonel Aminu Iliyasu , Nigerian Army
Operations Media Coordinator said, similarly, following the
alleged murder of one Alhaji Tanko of Janda Village in Jema’a LGA of Kaduna
State by unknown assailants, troops    of 1 Division Garrison deployed
within the area swiftly moved into the suspected crime location and arrested 2
suspects, Danladi Bisallah and Manesa Danladi with a locally fabricated rifle
and 12 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition. Also, in two separate night
operations conducted by same troops at Gindin Dutse Village and Rijana Forest
of Birnin Gwari and Kachia LGAs of Kaduna State respectively, 5 bandits
terrorizing areas were neutralized while 3 locally-made guns were recovered
from them. the troops also rescued a 12 years old boy, Rabe Abubakar, who was
kidnapped on 21st October 2019 by some bandits at Ruwan Sanyi Village close to
Liberia Forest in Kubau LGA of Kaduna State. In the course of rescueing Rabe
Abubakar, one  bandit was neutralised, one motorcycle belonging to the
bandits was recovered while 3 other bandits were believed to have escaped with
gunshot wounds. In another development, troops of 1
Brigade Garrison raided suspected kidnappers’ hideout at Dogun Karfe Forest in
Bakura LGA of Zamfara State. Troops however recover one AK 47 Rifle, 4
magazines and 80 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition which were abandoned by
the fleeing suspects. Similarly, troops of 16 Brigade Garrison (Main) raided a
suspected kidnappers hideout at Isisiama Village in Akuku –Toru LGA of Rivers State.
During the operation, troops arrested one suspect and recovered 3 pairs of
military camouflage uniforms, 2 Shell Petroleum Development Corporation (SPDC)
Overall Suits, 5 Speed Boats, and 2 Generating sets. Other items recovered
include; one pumping machine, one power bank,  4 mobile phones, 117 Voters
Cards, one boat engine and one Box Radio. The Chief of Army Staff (COAS),
Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai has  thank all well-meaning Nigerians for their
continued support and goodwill towards the Officers and men of the Nigerian
Army, the statement said.It added, all law abiding citizens are requested to go
about their lawful businesses        without fear of
molestation and intimidation. .