The Young Stakeholders Forum (YSF), South-South zone, on Sunday called on National leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Party  to embark on total reconciliation of all aggrieved members in Bayelsa. In a statement in Abuja signed by its Coordinator, Mr Charles Ibinabo, the forum said reconciliation would enable the party to win the upcoming Nov. 16 governorship election in the State. Ibinabo, who said that the forum was a support group of APC in the state, urged the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) to reach out to stakeholders in Bayelsa politics. “The chance of APC taking over Bayelsa currently is very high but the party’s governors’ forum, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC and Bayelsa state leadership of the party under former governor Timipreye Sylva, should forget about political sentiments for now. They should come together and work as a united party to reach out to those who matters in Bayelsa politics,’’ the coordinator said. According to him, after a careful study of how the election will play out, Bayelsa is up for APC, if its leaders can reach out to the State politicians to ensure total reconciliation among members. Ibinabo urged President Muhammadu Buhari to convene a meeting with all the aggrieved governorship aspirants in the state and secure their commitment to election victory. According to him, there is need to embrace and engage all politicians in the State, irrespective of political affiliations and bring them on board to achieve victory. “We recall that in the last governorship election in Osun state, the party stakeholders reached out to members of the opposition political parties like Chief Iyiola Omisore and it brought about victory for APC. “We are also in the know that the Peoples Democratic Party is more desperate to win the state again and it has set up a reconciliation panel headed by the former Senate President Bukola Saraki. “We expect our party to move fast and reach out to those we think can add value to APC winning in the South-south.’’ According to him, the forum has set up a five-man delegation to meet Chief Alaibe, Chief Tiwe Orunimighe and Timi Frank in Dubai, among others, before the election. Ibinabo appealed to all aggrieved parties, including the Minister of Petroleum, Mr Timipreye Sylva to give peace a chance to achieve the desired goal for the APC. (NAN)