THE IMPORTANCE OF OILS SMOKE POINT! Knowing the smoke point of oils is
important because some oils have low and others high smoke points.  This simply means some oils have more tolerance
to heat than other oils; and this ability is referred to as smoke point. Oil smoke point is also known as burning
point of oil, it is the temperature at which the oil begins to produce a
continuous bluish smoke that becomes clearly visible, this is where most of the
nutrients are destroyed. If you do not use oils with their smoke point analysis
in mind you may turn healthy oil into a toxic substance that may have unpleasant
consequences in the long term. Heating oil to the point where the oil
begins to produces toxic fumes is essentially introducing harmful free radicals
into the body. Such Oils are unsafe for consumption much less useful to the
body to utilize or translate to benefits. Although the smoke point of oil depends to
a very large extent on its purity and age at the time of measurement, however,
a simple rule of thumb is that the lighter the colour of the oil the higher its
smoke point. It’s important to choose oil with a good smoke point for cooking,
but you also need to use cooking oil that has a healthy balance of Omega 3 to
Omega 6 fatty acids, and even better if the oil is loaded with antioxidants and
vitamins! Smoke point tips For high temperature cooking, select
cooking oils with a high smoke point. For low temperature cooking, or adding to
dishes and salad dressings, chose oils with a higher Omega-3/omega 9 fatty
acids High smoke point Oils: Groundnut oil Soya-bean oil Moringa oil Grape seed oil Coconut oil Sesame oil Low smoke point oils: Pure olive oil (not extra virgin olive oil) Palm oil Best not applied to heat: Extra virgin olive oil Walnut oil Flax seeds oils: Savvy culinary tip! When cooking,(not deep-frying) always keep
this at the back of your mind, oils are only a flavouring in your food and not
a major ingredient so use oils sparingly. If possible Oils should be added
towards the end of your cooking to ensure the nutrients are not completely
destroyed. Remember, excessive heat destroys oils especially oils with low or
medium smoke points. Use oils wisely! Ensure to maximize your culinary oils in
every recipe. Fried foods have high oil content and are
energy dense. A regular consumption of fried foods may lead to fat intake far
in excess of body’s demands. Cautiously consume such foods and always augment
with vegetables while eating fried food. 
If the dish doesn’t go with a side vegetable salad, eat the vegetable
salad before consuming the meal. Avoid destroying nutrients in your oils especially
as in the case of palm oil, which is often bleached to give a pale colour in
the absence of groundnut. Palm oil possesses that reddish colour because of the
nutrients it contains and would offer your body if you do not destroy it…. We all have a responsibility to make wise
and informed choices each day about the food we buy and eat. These tips are
your ally to safer culinary and dieting so use them generously! For questions on culinary/ grocery tips,
diet-plans please drop me a message. Email: sussannajacob@gmail.com, newleeznlife@yahoo.ca Facebook: sussanna Ngodoo .E. Jacob Instergram: ngodoo.s.jacob Whatsapp: 07035990863