Big Brother Naija 4 ‘Pepper Dem’ reality show winner, Mercy Eke a.k.a ‘Lamborghini’ has bought a four bedroom flat apartment in lekki, Lagos State. The excited reality TV star, took to her instagram page @official_mercyeke to share the good news as well as a video captioned. “I stepped out of the house today as a tenant and returned as a house owner. “Thanks to Victoria Crest Home for making this possible.” On the other-hand, she was accompanied by ex BBNaija housemate turned lover, Ike as she received a key with the inscription “Just got our key” amidst friends and well-wishers. Billionaire wife, Uchechi Okonkwo has served an update on Big Brother Naija winner, Mercy’s new four-bedroom duplex which many first thought was a gift. According to Real Estate mogul, Kennedy Okonkwo’s wife, Uchechi, Mercy bought the four-bedroom duplex which she described as “the best decision”. She wrote: “Congratulations Babygirl, buying yourself a house, the best decision and I am super proud. Mercy Lambo on the 1000Landladies train and moving”. The ‘Queen of Highlights’ Mercy was crowned the winner of the reality show on Sunday Oct. 6, after 99 days in the house and went home with 60 Million worth of prizes. This winning makes Mercy the first woman to win the Big Brother Naija reality show since inception. The light hearted diva made the top two with her show best friend, Mike Edwards, who emerged first runner up. (NAN) Winner of Big Brother Naija, Pepper Dem gang, Mercy Eke, will make her Nolloywood debut in `Fate of Alakada’, a  movie produce by Nigerian actress, Toyin Abraham. The Nollywood actress, Abraham announced this in her Instagram page, @ toyin_abraham, appreciating Eke for coming onset. The movie is set to premier on… January 22, 2020 In "News" Housemates of the just concluded 2018 Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) have congratulated Miracle Igbokwe for living up to his name and winning the TV reality show star prize of N25 million. They said in Lagos late on Sunday after the show that Miracle deserved to win and wished him well… April 23, 2018 In "Society News" Tobi Bakre, has been crowned the first Head of House in the on-going Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) 2018 reality show. The housemate emerged winner of the tasks given to all the contestants by ‘Big Brother’, popularly addressed as ‘Biggie’ on Monday. The head of house challenge was split into two;… January 29, 2018 In "Society News"