“So say
it loud and let it ring; we are all a part of everything; the future,
present and the past; fly on proud bird; you’re free at
last.” ~Charlie Daniels, an American singer,
songwriter and multi-instrumentalist On October 28, last year, the curtains
fell, bringing the life and times of the Iyasele of Esanland, Chief Anthony
Akhakon Anenih, to a celebratory terminus; and so, he joyfully departed this
terrestrial plane for a place in the celestial realm that typifies the
future.  Anenih passed on a few weeks after his 85th birthday,
which he soberly marked on August 4 (2018) in a low key-fashion. Perhaps, beyond the economic reason
that he had cited for not celebrating as he was wont to do, he had, unknown to
us, begun a transcendental journey characterised by self abnegation, a
detachment from the social and the worldly, for an immersion in the spiritual
and the celestial. I remember how, in the twilight of his life and in his
quietude, Anenih had always listened to gospel songs, his favourite being Steve
Crown’s “You are Great”. He had, in fact,  requested
that the song be played for him while giving his address on the occasion of the
reception he organised at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, in 2016
to thank God for giving him a second chance to live after his major heart
operation in 2015.  He had taken the opportunity of the thanksgiving
to present to the public his autobiography titled: “My Life and Politics”. Those of us who were very close to the
influential political warhorse knew that the colossus would one day go the way
of all mortals. We carried on and helped him to play his part well while here.
We contributed our little quotas in helping him to define his eon with the
magnitude of his politics.  At different intersections, he had the
benefits of having committed men to work closely with him in government and out
of government.  In politics, where he became something like an
avatar, he had tended to the needs of his tribe of loyalists, becoming a
formidable rallying point. The exertions that came with that
responsibility were not going to last forever, though. Yet his expected
transmutation at some point, when it came on October 28, 2019, was like the
passage of a Comet. He left behind a body of legacies in business and politics.
It was in politics that he cut a national niche for himself. But interestingly,
it was in politics that he was caught up in the fundamental contradictions of
real and imagined identities. Certainly, it was not an identity
crisis.  It was a crisis of perception by the significant others,
which manifested in the garb of a somewhat deconstructed
persona.  This was a comfortable resort to those who were at the
receiving end of his political legerdemain; they were quick to deprecate and
demonise him as “Mr Fix It”.  To those who were beneficiaries of his
eleemosynary acts, he was a benevolent political leader who was touched with
the feeling of their infirmities. It was thus not surprising that a rash
of controversies was spawned around his personality and his politics. The
contextualization of his personality within his politics or vice versa had
brought him fame; it had also brought him scorn. In keeping fidelity with the
obligation to document his odyssey for posterity, he had through the medium of
his autobiography summed up his essential politics, clearing
a  number of misconceptions in some quarters. From his foray into politics in the
second republic where, as State Chairman of National Party of Nigeria (NPN)
in  old Bendel State, he was instrumental to the emergence of Samuel
Ogbemudia as governor the State, Anenih’s tactical role in politicking and
electoral matters received public approbation and appreciation subsequently. His functionality would later receive
further validation as Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) under whose
leadership Chief MKO Abiola won the June 12, 1993 presidential election that
was annulled by the General Ibrahim Babangida’s administration. His leadership
was understandably harangued by some persons who felt that the SDP leadership
traded off Abiola’s mandate. Anenih’s autobiography serves as his living voice
in the eternal controversy and complex narratives that will continue to dog the
annulment of the June 1993 presidential election, regardless of the fact that
the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has declared it as Nigeria’s
Democracy Day, instead of May 29. Anenih’s role in Nigeria’s presidential
politics was writ large.  It continues to enjoy historical reference
even after his demise. Posterity will glean from historical accounts how the
retired Police Commissioner turned businessman-politician rose through the haze
of the nation’s cloak and dagger politics to become an executor of campaign and
electoral strategies that had, in the fourth republic, produced as presidents,
at different intersections, Olusegun  Obasanjo, the late Umaru
Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan. Like an Octopus, Anenih’s ubiquity in
the nation’s political waters was legendary.  His political opponents
loved to hate him; whereas, his political circles had always found comfort and
strength in his leadership.  He was always trusted to deliver. Where
he was not trusted to deliver, and thus denied the free reins to assume the
command room, the result had always been disastrous. To appreciate, somewhat, the politics
of Anenih and how he deployed his deftness in moderating the dialectics that it
produced, a run through his autobiography would provide some understanding. The
autobiography represents the essential summation of Anenih’s political
trajectory. In a most significant way, Anenih had, before his transmutation,
defined his eon with the enormity of his politics.  His moniker as
“Mr Fix It” measures the complexity of the narratives that were woven around
his individuality as a consequence. Without a doubt, Anenih meant different
things to different people.  Like the proverbial elephant that was
subjected to the appreciation of some  blind folks, his persona
continues to be differently described, dependent on the part that each blind
person was able to touch.  It was interesting that it was in his
departure lounge of life that he made the greatest impact on party politics in
Nigeria and also on humanity. Anyone above 70 years is considered to
be in the departure lounge of life.  But Anenih became Minister of
Works and Housing in 1999 at the age of 66.  He was a standard bearer
of an enduring leadership that played an influential role on the political turf
until 2015 when Nigeria witnessed an unusual outcome in that years’
presidential election. To be sure, Anenih enjoyed the grace of
good health. He was therefore able to ply his political trade without much
difficulty.  He was consistent and persistent to the end. At 82, after
stepping aside as Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic
Party (PDP) following the defeat of President Jonathan by President Muhammadu
Buhari, he had a major heart surgery that slowed him down. He survived the
23-hour operation in a UK hospital where he was dubbed the “Miracle Man”. Since no one can cheat nature, at over
80, the body and the elements within would naturally and steadily depreciate.
That became the lot of the Iyasele of Esanland until the domestic accident that
culminated in his transition.  On Monday, 28, 2019, the Anenih family
holds the one-year remembrance thanksgiving Mass at St. Anthony Catholic
Cathedral, Uromi and a reception in the family house at Uzenema, Arue, Uromi,
thereafter in his honour. The late Chief Anthony Akhakon Anenih
left behind good legacies for posterity and continues to live in the hearts of
those of us that he affected positively with the fountain of his humanity. Rest
in peace, Owaren! ·      Ojeifo contributed
this piece from Abuja via ojwonderngr@yahoo.com