By Danlami Nmodu Former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory,FCT, Engr Muhammed Abba-Gana has written a heart- warming letter to General Yakubu Gowon on the occasion of the former head of state’s 85th  birthday. A copy of the letter seen by Newsdiaryonline says the
general’s “good counsel and worthy examples are still needed” in Nigeria. According to the former Minister, “ At the age of 85years
you look like 50 years old. Your good counsel and worthy examples are
still  needed. Therefore we pray to God
our Creator and Sustainer, to give you many more  years in good health. Amin. “ While hailing  the patriotism
of General Gowon,  he  said ,”Your good intentions, good and
patriotic actions/deeds and humane/kind character are the hallmark of your
Godly personality. You left behind an unequalled and lasting legacy of a united
Federal Republic of Nigeria. He recalled that, “After Lord Lugard’s amalgamation of 1914,
we are lucky and grateful that God used  you
to strengthen and keep Nigeria one and united, like in a referendum, in the
form of  Biafran war. “At the end of the unfortunate Biafran war of Nigerian unity,
your famous declaration  of ‘no victor no
vanquished’ provided the national and political framework for the reintegration
of the large and enterprising Igbo ethnic group from the Biafran side into the
Federal Republic of  Nigeria. “Your reconciliation, reconstruction and rehabilitation
program integrated the Igbo  ethnic group
back to their former status in the Nigerian political economy. “Following your patriotic/nationalistic footsteps, just 9
years after the end of the  unfortunate
Biafran war, an Igbo man, Dr. Alex Ekweme, became the Vice President of  the Federal Republic of Nigeria. And soon
after, the Biafran leader, Ojukwu, was  pardoned
by the then President Shehu Shagari; thus concluding the reconciliation/reintegration
of the Igbo ethnic group politically, economically & socially. “ All this was made possible by the excellent and states
manly framework and roadmap  you provided
after the surrender of Biafran soldiers. “This is the reason why the Good Lord has kept you all along
for us,” the ex minister said. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.