Coordinator of the
Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, said at the weekend that
though he observed distortions in the structure of the Programme on assumption
of office, he has maintained zero tolerance for any form of illegality under
his watch. Dokubo said even as
he had never altered the structure he inherited especially with regards to
beneficiaries captured in the database of the Amnesty Programme, he took steps
to redress glaring irregularities and cases of injustice. He spoke on Friday
in Calabar, Cross Rivers State, at a meeting with 97 leaders of Niger Delta
ex-agitators at the Transcorp Hotel. “I am so elated because of this meeting,
which is a meeting of minds. It is proper we come together and discussed issues
affecting this Programme face to face, so that we can take care of the challenges
before us. There is no issue
that we cannot resolve if we can meet and discuss those challenges that we
face. If there is an issue that has been disturbing you, this is a forum to
talk about it. But I also state clearly here, since I took over the leadership
of this office, anything about camp closure, camp reorganization, I have never
done any camp closure or reorganization. I pay as it is now, from the
beginning. The way your stipend is, is the way you have been receiving it. No
camp has been closed; no person can say that he has not received his stipend as
at when due, and I have never tampered with anything that is in the structure
of the Amnesty Programme”, Dokubo clarified. Reacting on
complaints of exclusion of genuine beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme under
previous administrations, Dokubo said such issues were being addressed in line
with statutory provisions. He assured that all beneficiaries of the Programme
will always get their entitlements promptly. “People that had
been excluded knowingly or unknowingly, I have looked at their cases and
brought them back so that they could earn what they are entitled to. I have
seen people who without their knowledge, they were excluded even before I came
into office. I have addressed these issues because I can’t allow something that
is illegal to take place. If you have an entitlement, your entitlement will be
paid to you. I have also gone beyond ensuring prompt payment of stipends; once
in a while, I meet with the leadership of ex-agitators to address issues. But
we must understand that while the Amnesty Programme is for Niger Delta, not
every Niger Deltan is a beneficiary of the Amnesty Programme. There are people
who are to benefit from the programme”. Dokubo, who
expressed concern on what he described as a disconnect between the leadership
of Niger Delta ex-agitators and their followers, said the interactive session
is aimed at bridging the gap to consolidate the Federal Government’s efforts at
deepening peace in the region. “I called you to
hear me out and also to understand my vision. This programme has faced
challenges. The main reason for this meeting is not only to meet with you, but
also to give you something for you to ponder about. What structure of
leadership do you have? When leaders talk, do followers obey?  And if you
have a complaint, can’t you address it through the leadership? I think that
there is disconnect between leadership of the ex-agitators and the members as a
whole, and until that gap is bridged, it will be difficult for us to deal with
the issues. When I hear about people trying to short-change genuine
beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme, I ask the question, do we really care
for our people? I will want you to
work hand in gloves with me to make sure that the issues that I have mentioned
are well redressed, and to also make sure that those who are beneficiaries of
this programme get exactly what they want. Let us all be fair-minded in dealing
with issues. We have to work together because we have a common project. I lot
of issues confronting me now took place when I was not in office, especially
cases of exclusion from the programme, and I stopped those things. In whatever
you do, I urge you to protect the interest of the Niger Delta people. What I
need is your support; there is the need for regular dialogue so that we will
continue to resolve the issues; there is nothing beyond resolution”. Speaking on behalf
of his colleagues in attendance at the interactive session, leader of the Peace
Camp in Bayelsa State, Chief Kalaiti Jephthah –Obadiah, commended Dokubo for
the initiative, which he said, will enhance peace and security in the Niger
Delta.