 Former spokesman of the House of
Representatives, Hon. Zakari Mohammed has described as mischievous and very
unfortunate a statement credited to his former colleague from Yagba Federal
Constituency, Sunday Karimi, in which he claimed that former Senate President,
Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, should be blamed for the automatic tickets given to
some federal legislators on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)
in Kogi State during the last general elections, a situation he claimed led to
the current crisis in the party. Zakari in a statement in Abuja today
noted that Karimi was just standing truth in the head and acting as a sore
loser by holding Saraki responsible for a decision taken by the National
Leadership of the Party that all National Assembly members who defected to the
PDP should be given automatic ticket. “It was an open secret that both in
PDP and APC, after the gale of defections in the National Assembly before the
last general elections, members who defected into the respective parties and
those who refused to defect were given automatic tickets. And except in a few,
isolated cases, that directive of the national leadership was respected across
board. “How then can Karimi who lost in his
aspiration to leave the House of Representatives to go and slug it out with
Sen. Dino Melaye for the senatorial ticket blame Saraki over his inability to
get the ticket? Was it Saraki that conducted the screening and the primaries in
Kogi State? “Karimi is a sore loser. He was
being immature and not behaving like a good sportsman. Why did he not challenge
the National leadership of the party when it took that decision? And how could
Kogi’s case be different when the same directive affected all the party
chapters across the country”, Zakari noted. Zakari who represented the
Baruten-Kaiama Federal Constituency from 2011 to 2019 advised Karimi to desist
from dragging the name of Saraki into his personal grouse and loss as Saraki is
not just a national leader of the party but also the leader of the party in the
North-Central zone. “We will not tolerate a situation
where a Karimi who, because, he could not get the party’s senatorial ticket in
the last election would now be sabotaging genuine efforts of the party to win
the next Governorship polls in the state by making statements aimed at
derailing genuine efforts to unite all members behind the party as the
Governorship election approaches”, he noted.