By Danlami Nmodu Bayelsa
state Governor Seriake Dickson has dismissed insinuations that he has suddenly
become a tyrant in the run up to the gubernatorial elections in his state. Answering
questions from the State House Press Corps after a meeting with President
Muhammadu Buhari, the governor described himself as a democrat.He alluded  to  the
fact many of his lieutenants  were
allowed to vie for offices without being molested, a development he said some states
would not tolearate. According to the governor, allowing  his aides to run for  the office of their such was the hallmark of
his democratic nature. The governor
claimed that he is actually closer to his people.One major proof of this, he
said, is that he has direct contact with stakeholders in most the communities
in the state. ‘That is why  they  call me 
 country man’ he said. Dickson further
claimed that the opposition gubernatorial  candidate his state stands no chance of  winning  
the forthcoming  election. Speaking on the preparations for the
election in the state, the governor said, “You know Bayelsa was known for
restiveness and militancy prior to my ascension as governor. Working with
security agencies; working with opinion leaders, working with all strata of
people and leaders in the state, Bayelsa has been stabilized. 

“It is clearly one if the stable states in the Niger Delta if not the most
stable and peaceful state in Nigeria. Bayelsa, by the way is safer, more stable
than FCT. “So, we are concerned about
maintaining the current momentum of stability which is a necessary precondition
for any kind of development and talking about development in all spheres, in
the mast close to eight years, I and my team in Bayelsa have advanced the  frontiers of development. “My call back home to all
politicians and parties, to all institutions of government, particularly the
INEC and the security agencies is that all hands must literally be on deck. We
have had very unfortunate instances where in elections you see unnecessary
violence, carnage and brigandage, maiming and displacement of people. In
Bayelsa, we have IDPs. “There are people, innocent,
peaceful women and children and people who were chased away by the militia
boldly supported by some security agencies and some political actors who kill
and have federal government support and cover; who know they cannot win any
election if we are to rely on votes of the people. “That is the situation in some
communities and those concerns have always been raised. So, we call for free
fair and credible and above all peaceful governorship election. “I am not on the ballot this time
and I have always said that myself as the leader of the PDP and the leader of
the leading opposition party who is a minister lead the charge and work together
for a peaceful free and credible election. We as a state and our party
available, and appreciate that and will continue to support all to achieve
peaceful election. Addressing the attempt to reconcile
aggrieved PDP members, he said  “Politics
is about management of dissent; management of interests that are conflicting
and also management of egos because you are dealing with human brings and we
are managing all of these. My specialty us reconciliation and I’m leading the
reconciliation efforts and we are also getting stakeholders at different
levels, at the state levels to do that. Even at the national level we are doing
so. In Bayelsa state PDP is the largest, biggest and the most formidable
political platform. “When you have such large platform
and you have about twenty something people aspiring, you will expect that at
the end of the day when one person inevitably wins, this issue will be there.
Compared to the other side which didn’t have the luxury of having a credible
primary, a candidate was brought out from the pocket of the leader of the
party; a candidate that is not sellable; a candidate that we all know can’t
govern, so for us the election is already won. Won by us and lost on the other
side.”