A Newsdiary Online correspondent,
Chimezie Godfrey was  among 30 others
certified as  expert on migration
reportage having undergone capacity building training for media agencies on
migration reportage. The training which was organized by
Civil Society Network on Migration And Development (CSONETMADE). and
International Organization for Migration (IOM) spanned   two consecutive
days, October 21 – 22, 2019 in Abuja. Godfrey in his remarks expressed
appreciation to  the organizers and
sponsors of the program and also  his media organization for availing him  the opportunity to be part of the training. “Am grateful to the organizers
and sponsors of this workshop for their patriotism and for giving me the
opportunity to be  part of this program. “Am particularly grateful to my
boss, the publisher of Newsdiary online for giving me the platform to be part
of the program and other capacity building programmes. “With the training I have
received during the workshop, I can confidently report migration issues with
precision and be able to contribute my quota to solving the challenges, and
unravening the misconceptions about migration locally and
internationally,” he said. The Coordinator, Civil Society
Network on Migration and Development, Emeka Chris Obiezu, said that the
objective of the training was to broaden the knowledge of Nigerian media
agencies on migration in framing migration reports to positively influence and
impact migration policies and implementations. He pointed out that the workshop
will enable Nigerian media practitioners have a better understanding of
migration trends, dynamics, and the correct use of migration terminologies in
their reporting. Obiezu disclosed that over the years
the story of migration has been largely positive with migrants bringing new
skills, energy, perspective and experiences to their new homes. “Even with all its positive
contributions migration has been associated with some diverse effects to
countries which includes undue pressure on local jobs, social security and
services among others. “This has finally led to untold
challenges and vulnerabilities experienced by many migrants in their host and
transit countries, “he said. He encouraged the participants in
capacity building workshop, as media practionals to use the acquired knowledge
to report migration issues effectively, adding that media is critical in shaping
pubic perception of migration. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.