The leadership of the National Youth
Council of Nigeria (NYCN) commends the Federal Government of Nigeria on the
bilateral agreement signed today 23rd of October, 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari and
Russian President, Vladimir Putin , during the ongoing Russian -Africa Summit
in Sochi, Russia. Almustapha Asuku Abdullahi, President,National
Youth Council of Nigeria said in a statement, “by this agreement the 
Nigeria-Russia bilateral relations have been strengthened to fast track and
pursue the completion of partially completed and abandoned projects initiated
by both countries most especially the Ajaokuta Steel Rolling company. The express  approval given by
President Putin of Russia to the request of President Muhammadu Buhari on the
uncompleted and abandoned Ajaokuta Steel Rolling mill for a
government-to-government relationship for completion and commissioning of the
plant is a big breakthrough for industrial revolution in Nigeria. The Ajaokuta
Steel Rolling company when completed will definitely lead to creation of jobs
opportunities for teeming population of our unemployed Youth across the country
and equally increase our nation revenue generating base,Abdullahi said.. He added, “Of great importance is
also the aspect of the agreement to start new infrastructure projects
and expand trade and investment opportunities, security and military
cooperation amongst the two countries.” President Muhammadu Buhari also
solicited Russian Government support in the area of Job creation to save
Nigeria foreign exchange for other important projects of National concern. “May we use this opportunity to
congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari on the successful outcome of this
bilateral meeting between Nigeria and Russia as we equally believe when fully
implemented it will turn around our nation’s economic fortunes. “We call on all young people in
Nigeria to continue to support President Muhammadu Buhari quest and efforts
towards revitalizing and repositioning our nation economy,” the statement said. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.