Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday presided over the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. President Muhammadu Buhari, at present, is in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, attending the third edition of the Future Investment Initiative (FII) organised by Saudi’s Public Investment Fund (PIF). Buhari will also proceed to Makkah after the three day conference to perform the Umrah, (lesser pilgrimage) and then to London on a private visit before returning to Abuja. Osinbajo, had on Oct. 23, presided over FEC meeting when Buhari  attended  three-day Russia-Africa Summit holding  in Sochi, Russia. (NAN) I really like and appreciate your blog.Much thanks again. Really Great. Enjoyed every bit of your article post.Really looking forward to read more. Keep writing. Im grateful for the article post.Really thank you! Really Cool. Very good article post.Much thanks again. Want more. Very good blog post. Much obliged. Thanks-a-mundo for the article.Really looking forward to read more. Fantastic. wow, awesome blog article.Really looking forward to read more. Want more. Thanks for the post.Really thank you! Great. Very neat blog article.Really thank you! Fantastic. A round of applause for your article.Thanks Again. Will read on… Major thanks for the blog article.Really looking forward to read more. Much obliged. I value the post. Really Cool. I appreciate you sharing this article post.Really thank you! Really Cool. wow, awesome blog post.Really thank you! Much obliged. Really informative blog.Really looking forward to read more. Great. Very good blog.Much thanks again. Fantastic. Great, thanks for sharing this blog. Really Great. Very informative post.Much thanks again. Great. I think this is a real great article.Thanks Again. Keep writing. Major thanks for the post.Really thank you! Cool. Thanks-a-mundo for the article.Much thanks again. Fantastic. Really informative blog. Really Great. I truly appreciate this article post.Really thank you! Great. Great blog post.Really thank you! Will read on… Major thankies for the blog.Really thank you! Cool. Really enjoyed this blog post.Really looking forward to read more. Want more. Thanks for the blog article.Really thank you! Keep writing. Appreciate you sharing, great blog.Much thanks again. Will read on… Very good post.Thanks Again. Really Great. I value the blog.Really looking forward to read more. Really Cool. I really enjoy the article post.Thanks Again. Really Great. Really informative blog article.Thanks Again. Awesome. Im grateful for the article.Really looking forward to read more. Keep writing. Muchos Gracias for your article.Thanks Again. Want more. Very good blog post.Really looking forward to read more. Will read on… Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Will read on… I really liked your blog post. Thanks Again. Really Cool. I truly appreciate this blog article.Thanks Again. Great. I truly appreciate this article post.Much thanks again. Really Cool. Muchos Gracias for your article. Want more. Im grateful for the blog.Really thank you! Very neat article post.Thanks Again. Cool. I really enjoy the article post.Really thank you! Awesome. Thanks a lot for the blog.Really thank you! Want more. Appreciate you sharing, great article post. Really Cool. Looking forward to reading more. Great blog post.Much thanks again. Really Great. Im grateful for the blog post.Really thank you! Really Cool. I appreciate you sharing this article. Fantastic.