The Independent Corrupt Practices
and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has declared the suspended
Chairman of the Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property
(SPIP), Mr. Okoi Ofem Obono-Obla, wanted due to his repeated failure to appear
before it to answer questions bordering on allegations of fraud and corruption. A press
release signed by Mrs. Rasheedat A. Okoduwa, mni, Spokesperson for the Commission on Tuesday said Mr. Obono-Obla is facing series of
allegations leveled against him by members of the public on his role as head of
the government panel on asset recovery. “The Commission is in receipt of
petitions accusing him of abuse of office, falsification of admission records,
living above his income and collection of gratification from suspects under his
investigation,”the press release said. “The suspended chairman is also
facing allegations of working outside the guidelines governing the panel by
investigating unauthorized petitions and prosecuting suspects without recourse
to the office of the Attorney General of the Federation” Okoduwa said. According to the commission’s spokesperson,
ICPC had conducted series of investigations on the allegations with preliminary
findings showing that some provisions of the Corrupt Practices and Other
Related Offences Act, 2000 and extant laws of Nigeria had been allegedly
violated by Mr. Obono-Obla. “Consequently,” she sai,  “ICPC had extended several invitations to him,
which he had failed to honour without giving any reason. Attempts to track and
make him appear before the Commission also failed leading ICPC to contact other
law enforcement agencies for assistance concerning his whereabouts.” “One of such contact has yielded
results as records from the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) show that Mr.
Obono-Obla had travelled out of the country. “The NIS records revealed that he
left the country to an undisclosed location on 17th August, 2019,
through the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, and has not returned
two months after.” Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.