By Chimezie Godfrey A Coalition of Civil Society
Organizations, (CSOs) has called on the government, policy makers and
stakeholders to put in place enabling laws, policies and measures to build an
accessible and inclusive society for persons with disabilities in Nigeria. They made the call on Saturday in
Abuja during a stakeholders Dialogue themed,” Building An Inclusive
Society for Persons With Disabilities in Nigeria.” In an opening remark, the convener
of the event and Executive Director, Platinum Interventions Care
Initiative, Blessing Mary Ocheido said one of the key tenets of human rights is
inclusion and accessibility for all irrespective of disability. She recalled that Nigeria is a signatory
to several International and regional instruments including the universal
declaration of human rights and the United Nations Convention on the rights of
persons with disabilities. Ocheido pointed out that these two
instruments emphasized rights of citizens with disabilities of member states to
known discrimination, equal opportunity and accessibility as stated in United
Nations Convention of persons disability act 29. The executive director  added that the recently passed disability act
emphasizes the need for accessibility of physical structures, transport system,
including sea-ports, railways, road transport and air-port facilities by
persons with disabilities. She however, regretted the fact that
over 90% of buildings and transport system in Nigeria are still inaccessible to
persons with disabilities, adding that this is clearly discriminatory. According to her,”Disability as
an impairment, as not the impairment itself, as a result of the interaction of
this impairment with attitudinal and environmental barriers which includes full
and effective participation in the society on an equal basis with others. “There are 25million Nigerians
living with disabilities of which I am one. “Growing up, I struggled to
acquire education and to live a normal life like my siblings, friends and
classmates. “To this day I still struggle
not because I do not have what it takes to be a productive citizen of the
country but because of the institutionalized barriers, negative perception and
structural impediment that I found all around me. “I have had to build my own
rounds in school in ABU Zaria to enable me attend classes. I build rounds where
I live, I build rounds where I have worked. “In spite of these challenges
that I have gone through, I realized am still one of the very few lucky ones
because not so many persons with disabilities can afford to make their own way
in a difficult society like Nigeria. “Several persons with
disabilities in Nigeria have been shot out of school, market places, Banks,
places of worship, recreational centres, and so due to all these barriers have
been subjected to a life of dependency abuse and charity. “The 25 million Nigerians with
disabilities can add greatly to nation building, if the society in which they
live are  accessible and considerate of their needs.” Ocheido said other African countries
 have made great effort by ensuring that
there are policies in place to carry persons with disabilities along, adding
that these policies and measures can be reproduced in Nigeria as everyone
deserves the right to live a full independent and productive life irrespective
of disability. Other discussants at the meeting
were Lois Auta, (Executive Director, Cedar Seed Foundation), Engr. A.J Agba
Joseph, (Head Engineering Regulations and Monitoring Department), and Engr. Ali
A. Rabiu, (COREN President). Others who were represented were
Comfort Lamptey(Country Representative, UN Women Nigeria) represented by Mrs
Patience Ekeoba, Ijeoma Nwaçhukwu,(Executive Director, Women and Girls
Advancement and Resources Centre) represented by Blessing Onwudiwe, among
others. The Platinum Interventions Care Initiative
hosted the dialogue in collaboration with other CSOs which include VOICE, Women
Advancements and Resources Centre, among others. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.