A
Federal High Court sitting in Kano, on Tuesday, dismissed a suit challenging
the tenure of Mr. Babatunde Fowler as Executive Chairman of the Federal Inland
Revenue Service, (FIRS). The
court, presided over by Justice Lewis Allagoa, struck out the suit when it
upheld the preliminary objection filed by Fowler’s counsel, Paul Erokoro (SAN)
that Stanley Okwara, the plaintiff, has no locus standi to file the suit. Justice
Allagoa came to the conclusion after an hour-long review of all the legal
authorities cited by Erekoro, T.A Ghazalli, counsel to the Attorney-General of
the Federation, who is the second defendant; and JohnMary C. Jideobi, the
plaintiff’s counsel. Justice
Allagoa said he could not see how the right of the plaintiff have been affected
by the non-appointment of the Executive Chairman, FIRS after August 15. “In
this case, the plaintiff said he is an unemployed legal practitioner. How
specifically that affects his rights to file this suit is not disclosed,” said
the judge. He
agreed with Fowler’s counsel that the plaintiff has no cause of action and that
it was fatal to his suit that he didn’t file a pre-action notice to the court,
as required by the Federal Inland Revenue Establishment Act (FIRSEA) 2007. “I
agree with the first defendant that the plaintiff ought to have served the
defendant with a pre-action notice. Learned SAN asked the court to strike out
the suit. I so hold,” Allagoa said. The
judge also upheld Erokoro’s submission that the suit should be struck out as
there is no “justiciable cause of action. Ike
Odume, FIRS Director of Legal Services, saluted the court, saying: “Me Lord, we
thank you for being forthright in this matter. Thank you for doing justice. It
cannot be less. I have been following this court from Enugu. I know you will
always do justice.  Thank you.” “My
Lord, we will be asking for costs. We have come all the way from Abuja three
times because of this matter. We will be asking for costs,” said Odume. Justice
Allagoa, however, overruled Odume. “Don’t
kill a fly with a sledgehammer. Parties should bear their costs,” he held. Jideobi,
counsel to Okwara was represented in court by Barrister A. Issa. About
a fortnight ago, Fowler’s counsel, Erokoro, supported by Odume and counsel to
the Attorney-General of the Federation, Ghazalli, in a preliminary objection,
asked the court to strike out Okwara’s suit Erokoro
and Ghazalli told the court that Okwara has no locus to file the suit in the
first place and that the suit should be struck out as the court has no
jurisdiction to entertain it.  Both maintained that the proper place
for the suit is the National Industrial Court. But
Okwara told the court that as a legal practitioner, he has fundamental human
right to file the suit and he has a duty under the Legal Privileges Act to
uphold the Rule of Law. The
plaintiff had asked the court in the suit (No. FHC/KN/CS/141/2019) to order
Fowler to vacate his office, which, he claimed expired on August 18, 2019. Okwara
claimed that Fowler was appointed on the 20 August 2015 and that his tenure had
expired as FIRS Chairman after 20 August 2019. Citing
the provisions of Sections 3(2) (a), Section 4(a) and Section 11 (a)” of the
FIRS Establishment Act 2007 and the decision of the Supreme Court in
Ogbuinyinya & Ors. vs. Obi Okudo & Ors. (1979) All N.L.R. 105, Okwara
claimed Fowler has no business to continue to hold office. He
also asked the court for an order directing Fowler to refund to the Treasury
Single Account of the Federation all the salaries, emoluments and other
monetary benefits he has been drawing on the purse of the FIRS and file an
affidavit of compliance within 14 days after the delivery of judgment in the
suit. But
in a notice of preliminary objection dated 30 September and filed the same day,
Erokoro noted that the Okwara has not disclosed a special interest. Given
Okwara’s failure to establish  his locus standi to commence the suit
and for failing to abide by Section 55 of the FIRS Establishment Act by filing
a pre-action notice on the FIRS Chairman, for failing to present
any  reasonable cause of action, Erokoro asked the court to strike
out the suit. “When
a plaintiff has not disclosed his standing to sue as in the instant case
the question of whether other issues in the case deserve to be decided does not
arise”. Erokoro told the court, that the adjudicatory machinery of the court
cannot be activated as such powers can only be invoked by a litigant whose
action is for the “determination of the civil rights and obligations of that
person. That is the letter and the spirit of Sections 6 (6) b of the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria”. Citing
Senator Abraham Adesanya Vs the President of Nigeria, (1986) 5 SC 112, Erokoro
said the Okwara need to have actual and real interest in the suit before he can
sue. “In
this case, the plaintiff’s alleged cause of action is that he is an unemployed
legal practitioner. He alleges that the tenure of office of the first defendant
has expired. How the purported expiration of the tenure of the first defendant
affects him is not disclosed. The case of Ogbuiniya and Ors  Vs Obi
Okudo & Ors (1979) ALL NWLR 105 heavily relied on by the plaintiff is
distinguishable from the instant case. In that case, the plaintiff’s case were
affected because a judge gave a judgment against the plaintiff at a time he had
ceased to be a judge of that court,” Erokoro told the court on Tuesday. Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.