The 1 Division Nigeria Army, Kaduna, has offered skills training to 345 barrack youth to make them self reliant. The 345 youths took part in a four months training in Tailoring, Catering, Information Communication Technology, Shoe making, Hairdressing and Electrical works. The beneficiaries, aged between 18 to 25 years, were exposed to various skills under the Nigerian Army Barrack Youths Empowerment Scheme (NABYES). The General Officer Commanding (GOC) the Division, Maj.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, presented Starter Packs to the beneficiaries on Wednesday in  Kaduna. He charged the beneficiaries to utilize the opportunity to be self reliant and add value to the society. Yahaya said the programme is in line with the Chief of Army Staff Barrack Investment Programme, adding that it would be sustained to enable more youths to become productive and self sustaining. The GOC disclosed that the beneficiaries underwent one month intensive training before attachment to some organizations for three months internship to enhance their knowledge. Yahaya said the army is committed to empowering barracks youth with relevant skills to maximize their energies and discourage idleness. “The first batch of the trainees under the 1Div NABYES had 345 Youth trained in various skills of their choice,” he said. The GOC said 1 Division would sustain the empowerment scheme and capture those who could not meet up with the first batch in order to eliminate idleness among barrack youth. He challenged the youths to reciprocate the gesture through commitment to their chosen trade. Earlier, the Coordinator of the Programme, Col. Ibrahim Gambari, said the programme commenced on May 23. He added that lectures to enlighten the youths on the importance of skill acquisition and capacity building were delivered before the training. He said that the aim of  the lecture was to enable the participants carefully select a field of their choice and interest. He commended the GOC for independently sponsoring the training and providing 345 starter packs worth millions of Naira to enable the participants become productive in their chosen skills. “On assumption of duty, the GOC saw the need to engage the teeming youths in NA barracks across Kaduna to be self reliant and orchestrated the scheme for Barrack Youth Empowerment Programme. “The occasion we are witnessing today is one of its kind in the NA, and headquarters 1 Div is setting the pace for others to follow,’’ he said. (NAN)