A budgetary provision of N536.7 billion in the 2020 national
appropriation bill, now before the National Assembly, to cater for the payment
of gratuities and monthly pensions of retired federal public servants is a
humanitarian gesture of immense proportions. The Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) described the proposal as a
right step in the right direction, aimed at lifting more Nigerians out of
poverty. According to the group, this
is another step in providing governance with a human face and to lift more
Nigerians out of poverty. It also noted the provision
of N16.567 billion and N48.8 billion to take care of ex-workers of the defunct
Nigeria Airways who were denied their gratuities, and for the pension office of
the head of the civil service of the federation respectively.

In a statement signed by Niyi Akinsiju and Casssidy Madueke, its Chairman
and Secretary respectively, BMO expressed the hope that the National Assembly
would consider the proposal speedily and in good faith as it has the capacity
to improve the living conditions of retirees who had spent their most useful
years in the service of the country.

“President Buhari has once more shown his magnanimity, love and affection for
workers.  This is the first time such huge provisions are captured in the
country’s national budget. “This conscious, singular act
and several others since President Buhari came on board in 2015, had put a stop
to retirees protesting or waiting on queues endlessly to get what was
ordinarily due to them”. The group said it is regrettable the manner and way in which retirees were
abandoned by previous governments during the most trying times of their lives
thereby making them very vulnerable.

“We note with appreciation the capacity of the President to clear all backlog
of pensions and gratuities for all retired federal workers in the country.
This, he has again demonstrated by directing the Pension Transitional
Arrangement Directorate, PTAD to conduct verification of workers in some
privatised government enterprises and other retirees with a backlog of pensions
with a view to paying them off in earnest.

“It is never in doubt that President Buhari has been consistent with his
sympathetic and friendly stand with Nigerian public servants since his military
days,” BMO added. Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.