By
Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor Following
the discovery of salary irregularities, arising from discrepancies of sorts,
Sokoto state government has constituted  a committee to harmonise as well as normalise
salaries of workers of the state. A
statement by the Commissioner of Budget and Economic Planning, who is also the
Chairman, Steering Committee of the exercise, Dr Shehu Balarabe Kakale made
available to Newsdiaryonline on Saturday said the Committee’s mandate is
to inculcate transparency and accountability in the wage structure of the civil
service in the state. Recall
that a Civil Servants Biometric Data Census, was recently conducted by the
Office of the Head of Service, with some similar exercises “aimed at producing
and maintaining a reliable database that will enable the Government guarantee
workers in its employment their entitlements as at when due.” According
to Kakale, “A revised payslip that comprehensively captures the salary items of
each employee has been developed and will come into effect by being mailed to
individual salary earners this October in order to entrench transparency in the
system.” This,
he stated, is because Governor Aminu Tambuwal, had since his election in 2015,
“endeavoured to realize the state government’s vision of inculcating
transparency and accountability in the wage structure, as one of the means of
ensuring efficiency and optimum service delivery.” He
explained that the Steering Committee set up by the state government to oversee
the Improved Strategic Salary and Internally Generated Revenue Platforms in the
state, “is an initiative necessitated by the realisation of the need to address
discrepancies in the administration of salary in the state.” Kakale
further emphasised that salary figures were at variance with data from
agencies, a development that created the need to harmonise the variant figures
as well as address the anomaly intentionally created to siphon public funds. “Over
the years, salary figures have been at variance with data from the relevant
agencies. The committee has been tasked to find ways of harmonising the figures
with a view to ensuring a common figure in all agencies, while exploring
measures to stabilize fluctuating internally generated revenue in the State. “So
far, remarkable successes are being recorded in terms of resolving the knotty
difficulties in the state’s payroll and are set to realize substantial savings
for government. A new platform has been put in place to curtail misapplications
of annual increments and allowances to ensure accurate process in salary
administration. “Furthermore,
a revised payslip that comprehensively captures the salary items of each
employee has been developed and will come into effect by being mailed to
individual salary earners this October in order to entrench transparency in the
system. “The
current process, therefore, also requires the support of workers in the State’s
payroll. Accordingly, civil servants who have issues with their salary grade
levels, steps or other problems are enjoined to freely approach the Committee,
through personal visit to its help Desk, established in the Cabinet Office,
Usman Faruku Secretariat for prompt resolution. The help Desk can also be
reached through the following numbers 08105475900, 08106010490 and
08144885521. “Similarly,
civil servants not covered by previous exercises will be given the opportunity
to come forward and be included in the database. The ultimate long-term objective
of the ongoing exercise is the creation and sustenance of accurate data on
salaries and other entitlements of civil servants, a prerequisite for
efficiency and prudence in the management of scarce resources,” Kakale stated. Credible
government source privy to the Committee work, told Newsdiaryonline that
the Committee had uncovered leakages through which government funds were
stolen, running to millions of Naira, monthly. “Let
me tell you very authoritatively, one of the best thing that has happened to
this state, is the constitution of this Committee. In a state like Sokoto with
lean revenue base, for over N400 million to be discovered as addition to salary
bill – but goes to private pockets, is suicidal. This has been going on for
years. But you will agree with me that this must be stopped. “Yes,
some people will not be happy with GovernorTambuwal’s initiative to stop this,
but well-meaning people of Sokoto should support this. I know that at a good
time, the Committee will make its findings, public and the people will shake
their heads in disbelief,” the source said. Newsdiaryonline
gathered
from other sources that cases abound where salary, for example, of level 10
officer in one ministry is different from similar officer from another
ministry; cases of undue/illegal promotion of privileged officers are rampant;
ghost workers also abound in salary vouchers in many, if not all ministries. Recall
that only few months ago, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)
arrested officials of local education authority of one of the local government
for using two different salary vouchers, with figures on one different from
that of the other. The
said officials were alleged to have used the voucher with higher salary bill to
claim money from the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) but pay
staff using the voucher with lower salary bill.