Hajia Suliat Olayiwola, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Coordinator, Pious Safe Haven, an NGO, has called on mothers in the country to educate their daughters on healthy adolescent development. Olayiwola made the call in an interview with Newsmen in Gwagwalada, during a one day workshop for Muslim Female Teenagers, with the theme titled “Fitting into Puberty”. She said the workshop was aimed at educating Muslim teenage girls in the country on how to fit into Puberty, basically on hygiene, mensuration and standard morals in the society. According to her, the organization, a subsidiary of Pius Muslim Women International Organization (PMWIO), strives to educate, enlighten and empower members to become better Muslimahs, mothers, wives and citizens. “The goals of the group are to create a safe haven in a loving and caring environment; help sisters uphold their dignity based on Islamic values and principles. “To promote good health, and well-being by improving physical, spiritual, financial and mental health of sisters to the appropriate support network. “The group strives to provide a safe and welcoming environment to work through issues and feelings for sisters in need. “Every mother needs to educate her daughter on how to be neat and healthy at her teenage age  for healthy adolescent development,” she said. The coordinator said the government has tried on the girl child education, adding that parents have a greater role to play to ensure that their children are enrolled in the program. On her part, Mrs Idia Anibilowo, a member of the NGO, said the sensitisation is a world wide idea and not peculiar to only Muslim teenage girls alone but a global issue.Anibilowo also called on mothers in the country to ensure that their daughters get proper hygiene and healthy adolescent development for healthy living. Miss Zainab Awal, a participant thanked the NGO for the sensitisation workshop and promised to use the knowledge acquired for proper use in the society. (NAN) Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.