 By Sani A. Muhammad Bakin Kasuwa Suleja Local Government was unofficially divided into two zones and it has been like that for time immemorial. The first zone which is known as “Cikin Gari” is the main Suleja town while the second zone being referred to as settlers. Though, they have been in Suleja for more than hundred years yet they are known as ‘Yan Kofa or Bakin Kasuwa. Late Governor Abdullahi Abdulkadir Kure, in order to balance the political equation of Suleja, created Abukwakwa Local Government for the so-called settlers . However in 2007, the newly created Local Governments was dissolved by Babangida Aliyu’s administration. Since then, the only political or elected post allowed for Bakin Kasuwa was Commissioner’s position. The Bakin has never been given the chance to produce a Local Government Chairman in the history of Suleja. The marginalization became more obvious with this present dispensation of All Progressive Congress (APC). The main Suleja town is currently occupying the following positions; House of Representative, Member State House of Assembly, Commissioner Niger State Independent Electoral Commission, APC National Deputy Treasurer, Local Government Chairmanship Aspirant and his deputy. The most surprising part of the situation is how the Bakin Kasuwa contributed immensely to the victory and the success of Governor Lolo administration and the APC in general with the hope that political fortune would smile on Bakin Kasuwa.Unknown to them, the little they have would be snatched by the governor. The most painful part of the story is duplication of appointments where the Governor allegedly intentionally nominated Barr. Mohammed Tanko Zakari Saka who is a biological brother to Hajiya Binta Zakari Saka the current NSIEC both of them from the same parents. Before the 2015 general elections we have the following two positions, the Local Government Chairman and Commissionership positions. But today we have been sidelined and all the two positions were taken away. The unfortunate situation is the way the state government relegated and underated Bakin Kasuwa despite it population and it large number of wards and polling units. Also it is well-known that Bakin Kasuwa alone contributes over 60% in the IGR and the economy growth of the Suleja local government. It is not longer a story that Bakin Kasuwa is the main commercial heart of Suleja. The marginalization and injustice is totally uncalled… We worked tirelessly for the success of APC thinking that we are going to get justice. But at last it is total injustice we are receiving. May be some may defend the governor that he was unaware of this seeming injustice but how could you govern people without really knowing their political settings? Why would a Governor listen to few individuals who only think of themselves without finding out from those concerned? Muhammad Bakin Kasuwa writes from Suleja