Tomorrow, Tuesday 29th
October, President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to  declare open the 
the 31st Annual National Education Conference of the National Union of Textile
Garment & Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), affiliate industrial
union of Nigeria Labour Congress ( NLC) and IndustriALL Global Union with head
quarters in Geneva. The 3-day conference holds at the Olaitan Oyerinde Hall of
the Labour House. Nelson Mandela
Mandela  once observed that; “Education is the most powerful weapon
which you can use to change the world.”  Precisely because am involved
(with apology to Ikemba Ojukwu), I bear witness that consistent educational
activities in the last three decades had changed the world of labor and
industry in the textile and garment sector. Despite the challenges facing the
industry, NUTGWN with limited resources devotes resources to education of members on
wide range of themes that include Productivity, Social Dialogue, social
security, Trade Unions, Occupational Health and Safety, Collective Bargaining
and Industrial revival. The union’s  wise investment in continuous
education of members has contributed to the well acknowledged matured and
robust industrial relations system in the textile and garment industry. Despite  the past and
current challenges facing textile sector, industrial peace and  harmony
commendably still prevails in the sector. Indeed in the 40 years of industrial
unionism in Nigeria, there has not been a single national strike and work
stoppage in the textile industry. It is commendable that through collective
bargaining and regular social dialogue with employers the  union had 
signed as many as 45 national collective agreements on a number of welfare
items that have impacted  positively on the work and life of members. As
Nigeria’s industrial relations undergoes the challenges of avoidable disputes,
strikes and lockouts,  other unions and employers might find useful the
model example of peaceful contestation and cooperation between workers and
employers in the textile Industry on all aspects of industrial relations. The
theme of this year’s Conference even assumes special importance. Timely and
well thought out. On   Tuesday
July 23rd  leadership of the union led by  the President Comrade
John Adaji and yours comradely, the General Secretary, paid a courtesy call on
President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. There the President
formally unveiled the new comprehensive Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG)
policy.  The CTG policy as we all know is a product of extensive
consultations with all stakeholders in the textile and garment value chain. This
Conference  brings  all stakeholders in the textile value chain
together to critically evaluate the current initiatives, reflect on the
challenges and generate ideas for industrial revival,  job creation and
ensure the implementation of the new CTG policy in the Next Level of the
administration. Textile union has been an enthusiastic supporter of the
administration’s three point agenda of diversifying  the economy for
growth and development, fighting corruption and ensuring national security and
welfare of all as envisaged by 1999 constitution. During the last June
12 Democracy President Buhari announced the vision of the government to
create 100 million jobs within a decade. The Nigerian Cotton Textile and
Garment (CTG) sector has the capacity to transform Nigeria’s rural economy and
revive the textile and garment industries by creating over 2 million jobs,
improve internal revenue across three tiers of government, reduce $4.0billion
import bill incurred annually on textile and apparel, safeguard and earn
foreign exchange. It’s time Nigeria realized the fullest the textile potentials
for nation building. Expected at the conference are the governors of cotton and
textile producing States, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment,
Customs Service,  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Bank of Industry (BOI),
Industrial Training Fund (ITF)  and other stakeholders are expected at the
Conference with policy ideas that would ensure effective  implementation
of CTG policy. Textile industries are located in most of the states of the
Federation. In the  80s, the industry employed some direct 650,000
workforce and indirect millions of cotton farmers, traders and garment workers
and tailors. The sector contributed over 25% of the workforce in the manufacturing
sector and as much to national GDP.  The defunct Northern, Western and
Eastern regions and the first generation newly created states relied majorly on
textile mills as  sources of internally generated revenues through company
and personal income taxes. The hope is that the narrative of the sector
would change from  lamentation to revival and recovery. Since 
2015  government had promoted policies that support local industries such
as import restrictions. There have  been unprecedented Executive Orders that
encourage the procurement of Made in Nigeria goods and services. Recently the
administration  gave directive to all government uniformed institutions to
use locally produced garments.  Millions of decent  jobs will be
created when the military, police, para-military organisations including the
National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), fully patronise local industries and local
fabrics. The confab examines the impact so far. In recent times, the CBN
has taken a number of bold and commendable efforts to encourage patronage of
local fabrics  towards driving the economic policies of your Excellency.
After series of engagement,  CBN  initiated the signing of an
unprecedented MOU between the Service Chiefs, Chief Executives of Uniformed
Services, and textile/ garment manufacturers on enforcement of Executive Order
003 on Support of Local Content in Procurement by MDAs. On May 6th,
2019 under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, CBN flagged-off the 2019 Wet Season
Cotton Input Distribution to 150,000 farmers in Katsina, Katsina State. 
As many as 180,000 hectares of cotton would be cultivated to  feed
local  ginneries to be used in the production of high quality textile for
use by the armed forces and other uniformed service organizations. Today,
unprecedented massive cotton production is ongoing in across 23 States of
Nigeria with the provision of high yielding varieties that will produce top
quality fabrics that can compete in the international market. The  new
Ministers of Agriculture, Industry, Investment and Trade must complement the
commendable efforts of the CBN monetary and development financing measures. The
CBN, has commendably blocked the accounts of some smugglers sabotaging
Nigeria’s economy in the textile, rice and palm oil industry. The 
administration has also developed a comprehensive strategy to fully optimise
the benefits of AfCFTA with necessary safeguards in place to prevent and
apprehend unfair trading practices such as smuggling and dumping.  The
most potent so far is the  current border closures and
institutionalization of mechanisms to combat smuggling on a sustainable
basis. As many as 500 participants are drawn from cotton, textile, garment
and self-employed tailoring sectors nation-wide for this  year’s
 conference.  Fraternal affiliate guests and participants from
other sectors in Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia are
expected to share experience on the theme. Issa Aremu
mni Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.