The National Assembly has
tasked the Federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to provide
achievable targets that are measurable with timelines for the implementation of
the 2020 Budget. President of the Senate and
Chairman of the National Assembly, Ahmad Lawan, said the ninth Assembly is not
only concerned about the timely passage of the budget but also deeply concerned
about its implementation. Lawan, flanked by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila and principal
officers of both chambers, spoke at the National Budget Hearing on the 2020
Federal Government Budget which began on Wednesday at the National Assembly. The Senate President said:
“We have mandated our Committees to engage with the MDAs. We want the MDAs
to give us roadmaps on how they intend to achieve their targets. “If you are taken 10
million Nigerians out of poverty in 2020, in ten years it will be one hundred
million. We want to see the plans by the relevant or responsible Ministries,
Departments and Agencies of government on how the 2020 budget will be able to
take 10 million Nigerians out of poverty. “We want these to be
measurable targets. We are not going to be asking for stories. We are going to
be asking for facts. “So, we are going to
task the MDAs that in this year budget we will not wait until 2021, give us
targets that are measurable which we can evaluate after every quarter.” The Senate President also
cautioned on the continued reliance on borrowing to fund the infrastructure
needs of the country but instead suggested a Public Private Partnership (PPP)
option. “If we have to borrow,
we should borrow. Where we can avoid borrowing because there is another
opportunity, we should take that opportunity that has a lesser burden,”
Lawan said. Lawan is also in agreement
with the suggestion for the resuscitation of the long term national planning
programme. “I agree that the long
term national economic programme is useful. We had it before, it worked for us
better. We stopped it and we have seen the consequences. “So now that we have a
minister that thinks that we should go back to that process and we have a
National Assembly that is prepared to ensure that this country does better. We
should hit the ground running. “I am not aware of any
request for legislation but if it is the desire or necessity that we legislate,
this National Assembly will work with the government to ensure that we
legislate on the national economic development plans,” Lawan said. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.