A training programme aimed at strengthening the capacity of
Community  Based Organisations, (CBOs),
bloggers, anti-corruption agencies  officials
and media practitioners on new techniques of tracking 
corruption and illicit wealth began in the North West city of Kano on  Monday.

Foreign experts joined by local resource persons led scores of  participants on technical and legal skills
needed in the global  anti-corruption war.
The training, which began in Kano, will also take  place in Abuja and Port Harcourt in coming
days.

One of Nigeria’s   anti-corruption groups, Human and Environmental  Development Agenda, (HEDA Resource Centre),
which organized the training  with the theme
“Experts Training and Advocacy on Tracing and Recovery of  Illicit funds and Assets”, said, Nigerians
needed to take over the 
campaign against corruption and therefore own the process. He said the  training empowers individuals and community
driven groups to deal with corruption without necessarily relying on existing
institutions for  sources of information
at all times.

Two experts from Europe, Nick Hildyard and Christian Erikson led the  training on how participants could explore
the internet to track illicit  weapons
acquired by public officials. Other supporters of the training 
programme are: The Corner House, Finance Uncovered, Kent Law School,  Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism,
MacArthur Foundation, OSF/OSIWA among others.

The training covered technical areas including but not limited to Asset  Recovery Materials, How to Draft Complaints,
how to spot and detect  money laundering,
Making Freedom of Information Requests (FOI), 
Obtaining Company Registration Document, search for property records  among many others.

A new dimension was brought to the anti-corruption training when one of  the United Kingdom-based experts, Mr. Nick
Hildyard said London remains  one of the
leading corruption centres in the world where billions of  illicit funds pass through every year,
blaming the trend on official  complicity
by political office holders in the UK.

He said, corruption is a virus while the people are the anti-bodies  necessary to fight and exterminate the
scourge.

Speaking at the session, HEDA Chairman, Mr. Olanrewaju Suraju said  corruption is a major problem that requires
constant anti-vice  innovations by the
citizens. He said one of the most strategic ways of 
fighting corruption is to empower the people to act on their own. He  said, stability and sustainable livelihood in
Nigeria depends on the  capacity of
Nigerians to fight corruption.


“There is a link between corruption and violence. For instance, Kano and  the North West are some of the victims of
violence. In the face of  institutional
anti-corruption efforts, people are damning the law. 
Corruption has impact on utilities like water, roads, security which  Nigerians are being made to privately pay for
individually. This means  that the
government is eroding her responsibilities. Money is allocated  for services not rendered. We can checkmate
this by fighting corruption.  Public
officials are building personal homes and investing in huge  projects. It is time to ask questions about
corruption.” Suraju said.

Hildyard stated “I have been working on human rights and corruption for  about 40 years. You may think UK is a very
uncorrupt country, but London  is one of
the money laundering centres of the world. What we have in UK  is legal corruption. We need to work together.
We all need to get  involved. It’s
remarkable what a small group of people can achieve.” He  said in the UK, the group he leads has been
described as “a small dog  with a very
large bite”, adding that Nigerians can replicate the same 
strategy of making corrupt people and institutions restless.

Hildyard said further “Our efforts have led to changes in UK, including  legal amendments. Corruption is a virus and
citizens coming together,  they are the
anti-bodies. You may think that tracing assets of 
corruption is a difficult thing to do, it is but it is not an impossible  task. It’s our job to use the internet to
work on tracing illicit  assets.”


Representative of the Chairman of the Code of Conduct, Zephaniah Bulus  said every time Nigerians keep talking of
corruption. “Corruption is  behavioural.
On a daily basis, it forms the negative aspects of our  life. While looking for illicit assets, there
are liabilities. There  should be
responsibilities according to law, There are public officers  that must declare their assets. This is
stipulated in Section 52 of the 
Nigerian constitution. The law covers public officers in the Executive,  Legislative and the judicial arm of
government.”


He said Section 15 of the Code of Conduct Bureau stated that public  officers must declare their assets immediately
after taking over office  and that there
should be declaration in every four years whereas any  statement in any declaration that is found to
be false is a breach of  the Code of
Conduct Bureau. Other resource persons at the session were  Prof Shehu Abdullahi, Mr. Emmanuel Anyaegbunam,
Mr. Y. Z. Yau, Nurudeen  Ogbara, Mr Dapo
Olorunyomi and Prof Deji Adekunle. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.