The point cannot be overstated that
the realization of Agenda 2063 of the Africa Union (AU) depends on the
leadership role of the two biggest economies on the continent, namely Nigeria
and South Africa.  The   original concept note says:  “Agenda
2063 is Africa’s blueprint and master plan for transforming Africa into the
global powerhouse of the future. It is the continent’s strategic framework that
aims to deliver on its goal for inclusive and sustainable development and is a
concrete manifestation of the pan-African drive for unity, self-determination,
freedom, progress and collective prosperity pursued under Pan-Africanism and
African Renaissance. The genesis of Agenda 2063 was the realisation by African
leaders that there was a need to refocus and reprioritise Africa’s agenda from
the struggle against apartheid and the attainment of political independence for
the continent which had been the focus of The Organisation of African Unity
(OAU), the precursor of the African Union; and instead to prioritise inclusive
social and economic development, continental and regional integration,
democratic governance and peace and security amongst other issues aimed at
repositioning Africa to becoming a dominant player in the global arena”. When
vision 2063 was conceived Africans could not have imagined that xenophobic
attacks  would become so addictive (2007 to 2019!) such that African
leaders would again be refocusing on how to curtail the new apartheid (which
xenophobia is) rather than pushing the frontiers of prosperity for the
increasingly number of the poor people of a rich continent. It is against this
background we must hail the recent proactive visit of President Muhammadu
Buhari to South Africa between October 2 to 4, 2019. It is the scandalous lack
of proactive engagement between Nigeria and South Africa over the years that is
fueling the crisis of continental governance which has sadly degenerated into
serial street wars of attrition between the poor people (note the poor, not the
rich!)  of the continent. Nigeria and South Africa and indeed all Africans
need cooperation not cut throat competition for Africa to develop. It is better
late than never! Even though, President Buhari’s visit as well as the expected
return visit of President Cyril Ramaphosa to Abuja had been  overshadowed
by the pains of xenophobia, it is this continuous progressive engagement
between Nigeria and South Africa that would deliver Vision 2063 for Africa.
Godliness is some of  the highlights  of the elevated Bi-National
Commission between Nigeria and South Africa as captured by the Presidential
spokesman, Garba Shehu:. Both
leaders rightly damned  xenophobic violence and the reprisals. The
solution to the poor on poor violence “lies in poverty eradication, jobs
creation, crime prevention, observance of rule of law and lawful migration”.
The two Presidents also directed their Foreign Affairs Ministers to give
practical expression to the Early Warning Mechanism for prevention and
monitoring platform.” Nigeria
and South Africa also agreed to exchange a list of frequent travellers, notable
business people and academics to facilitate the issuance of long term multiple
entry visas for 10 years. This should be deepened further with people to people
organized contacts. Both the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC)  and COSATU of
South Africa should be incorporated in the new elevated BNC. Organized labour
had robust and rewarding peaceful relationships in the two countries which
governments of both countries must tap on . The two countries agreed to cooperate in geopolitical matters
affecting the continent, on such matters of human rights, reform of the United
Nations, migration and security issues, the fight against corruption and
terrorism, nuclear disarmament and Western Sahara. They also agree to take “full advantage of the Nigerian
Presidency of the UN General Assembly, currently led by Nigeria’s Permanent
Representative, Professor Tijjani Mohammed Bande, and the South African
Chairmanship of the Security Council for October, 2019, they agreed to push for
the implementation of Resolution 2439 of the Security Council passed 2017, that
called for a High Level Visit to the Lake Chad Basin. The
leaders of the two countries agreed to come closer on defence matters and
counter terrorism; to intensify military training cooperation and share
intelligence, and to work closely in areas of space technology and cyber
security with expected Joint Ministerial Advisory Council on Industry, Trade
and Investment. The inaugural meeting of this council will hold in April in
Abuja next year. Presidents
Buhari and Ramaphosa also tackled the knotty issue of market access. While
South Africa is expected to re-submit the items they wish to have removed from
Nigerian import prohibition list and want identified legal and regulatory
difficulties facing businesses from their country in Nigeria removed, this
country equally wants to have similar obstacles faced by Nigerian companies in
changed or taken out altogether. Nigeria expressed commitment to open a trade
office in South Africa. Both
countries noted the non-participation of Nigerian banks in South Africa and requested
such banks to define their interests for determination by the relevant
regulatory authorities in South Africa. We are told same  would apply to the aviation sector where
the South African Airways has free air space in Nigeria but airlines here say
they have difficulties accessing the South African air space. But the most
significant take away is the repeated apologies of President Ramophosa for the
unfortunate violence of the recent past and nostalgia of the old relations that
defeated the most inhuman system of apartheid. Witness him : “We should
never forget that our fellow Africans have contributed to the development of
our economy and that of the region, and that South Africans are helping to
develop economies across the continent.”  “We owe our freedom to Nigeria and Africa..in spearheading
the call for sanctions against the apartheid regime in the 70s and 80s
following the Sharpeville massacre in 1960,” adding that “without Nigeria,
freedom for South Africa would have come at a greater cost and a later date.”. Issa
Aremu mni Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.