Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, (SERAP) has
asked the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission
(ICPC) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to: “jointly carry
out a prompt, thorough, transparent and effective investigation into
allegations that principal officers and members of the Nigerian Senate are
using their official positions to get job slots from government agencies.” SERAP also urged the anti-corruption agencies to: “probe
allegations that some ministries, departments and agencies are selling the
employment slots at their disposal, with a single slot being allegedly sold for
as much as N1.5 million. We urge you to prosecute anyone suspected to be
involved should you consider there is relevant and sufficient admissible
evidence, and to make public the outcome of any investigation.” In the petition dated 18 October 2019 and signed by SERAP deputy director
Kolawole Oluwadare, the organization said: “This alleged preferential treatment
in Nigerians’ access to government jobs is a textbook case of cronyism,
patronage and corruption. The public interests are best served when public
employees are recruited on the basis of their skills, competence and expertise
rather than as a reward for political, social and other similar connections.” In the letter sent to ICPC chairman Bolaji Owasanoye and EFCC
Acting Chairman Ibrahim Magu, SERAP said: “Unless the allegations are urgently
investigated and suspected perpetrators brought to justice, the effective and
efficient performance from the public workforce, competence in government
services and functioning of ministries, department and agencies will continue to
be negatively impacted.” The organization also said: “These allegations show the face of
public recruitment in Nigeria in recent decades, which has typically been that
of political influence, cronyism, patronage and corruption. The allegations
amount to a fundamental breach of Nigerian Constitution 1999 (as amended), the
country’s anti-corruption legislation and international obligations,
particularly article 7 of the UN Convention against Corruption to which Nigeria
is a state party.” The letter copied to the chairman of the Presidential Advisory
Committee Against Corruption, Itse Sagay, read in part: “SERAP urges you to
invite the principal officers and members of the Senate and government agencies
allegedly involved for interrogation and questioning, and to prosecute them if
your investigation indicates relevant and sufficient admissible evidence. This
would show your agencies’ willingness to proactively exert your mandates and
act as a deterrent against breaches of Nigeria’s constitution, anti-corruption
legislation and international standards.” “Allegations of people being recruited for jobs into government
agencies regardless of qualifications or competence, because of political
affiliations or connections have damaging effects on the independence,
effectiveness and efficiency of these important public institutions. This in
turn undermines citizens’ access to public goods and services like quality
education, healthcare, and clean water.” “SERAP urges the ICPC and EFCC to jointly act to ensure that
government agencies comply with legal requirements in public recruitment
processes including transparency and objective criteria such as merit, equity
and aptitude, if the public interests and integrity of the agencies are to be
secured, and if Nigerians are to enjoy better and efficient performance from
these agencies, and improved access to public goods and services.” “Article 7 of the UN Convention against Corruption requires the
Nigerian authorities including the Senate to adopt and comply with systems of
hiring into public ministries, departments and agencies that ensure openness,
equity and efficiency.” “Any such systems must be based on principles of efficiency,
transparency and objective criteria such as merit, equity and aptitude. Any
recruitment process must also prevent conflicts of interest. The Senate would
seem to have violated the conflicts of interest principle, as it exercises
oversight functions over these government agencies.” “SERAP notes Section 15(5) of the Constitution of Nigeria 1999 (as
amended) to the effect that ‘The State shall abolish all corrupt practices and
abuse of power.’ Similarly, the UN Convention against Corruption requires the
authorities to ensure effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions and
penalties for corruption.” “According to our information, some principal officers and members
of the Senate are allegedly using their official positions to get job slots
from government agencies, and that some government agencies are selling the
employment slots at their disposal, with a single slot being sold for as much
as N1.5 million.” “The agencies allegedly involved include: the Federal Inland
Revenue Service, National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, National Space Research
and Development Agency, the National Open University and the Federal Civil
Service Commission.” “The leadership of the Senate allegedly received 100 employment
slots from FIRS to share among themselves. The Senate President Ahmad Lawan
(Yobe North) allegedly secured 26 job slots from the FIRS.” “Senate Committee on Federal Character, Danjuma La’ah, reportedly
stated: ‘We are aware that some of the agencies are selling the employment
slots at their disposal. They are commercialising employment, selling a single slot
for as much as N1.5m, when we have children who have graduated from tertiary
institutions who could not get any job for many years. Some people are just
taking Nigerians for granted. Our children are suffering, running from one end
to another, looking for jobs.’” Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.