The UK economy has been delivered another fresh blow
following the drama that has taken place in the British parliament on Saturday. This is the stark message from the CEO of one of the world’s
largest independent financial advisory organizations. The comments from Nigel Green, chief executive of deVere
Group, come as Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced a new setback after MPs
backed a move – in the form of the Letwin Amendment – to delay a Brexit deal
until further legislation is passed. Dubbed Super Saturday, it was Parliament’s first weekend
session in 37 years. Mr Green notes: “One of the most important days in British
political history became something of a damp squib as the Letwin Amendment
rendered the Meaningful Vote meaningless. “The prospect of a no-deal Brexit is now becoming
increasingly likely.  As such, the
government is said to be upping its no-deal preparations and is set to
introduce legislation needed for the UK to leave the EU on October 31. “The Prime Minister is clear that he will not negotiate a
delay and says that the law doesn’t compel him to do so. He will tell EU
leaders there should be no delays and that they should reject Parliament’s
letter asking for a delay.” He continues: “These extraordinary goings-on extend and
intensify the ongoing Brexit-fuelled uncertainty and chaos. “The event of not-so-Super Saturday will negatively hit UK
financial assets, major investment decisions will continue to be put on hold by
companies and organisations, as will big-ticket spending items by households,
and confidence and opportunity will continue to be undermined. “This will, of course, all compromise the British economy.” He goes on to add: “Much of the chaos has already been
priced-in to the pound, so it will be to some degree shielded from the events
in parliament today.” Mr Green concludes: “The tense and volatile geopolitical
climate in the UK is one of the main headwinds for domestic UK and
international investors around the world as what happens in Westminster can
affect returns. “UK and international investors in UK assets can be expected
to respond to the continuing uncertainties by considering removing their wealth
and assets away from the UK. “Amid the uncertainty, one thing is certain: Whatever
happens next, the ongoing Brexit nightmare is not going to end on Halloween.” Like!! Really appreciate you sharing this blog post.Really thank you! Keep writing.