 By Chimezie Godfrey Amnesty International has decried what it described as the increased harassment, intimidation, physical assault and arbitrary arrest of journalists, bloggers, and activists in Nigeria by Nigerian authorities simply for doing their job. At a press briefing on the state of freedom of expression and media freedom in Nigeria where it launched: “Engendered Voices” on Monday in Abuja, the organization revealed that at least 19 journalists were detained at various times this year. “Increasingly, the human rights
cost of receiving and sharing information for journalists, bloggers and
activists comes with dangerous consequences, forcing journalists, bloggers and
activists to operate in a climate of fear. “Journalists, bloggers and
activists are facing increased risks simply for publishing articles and
demanding accountability from the authorities. “This is totally unacceptable.
The authorities must immediately put an end to this hostility towards human
rights,” said Osai Ojigho, Country Director, Amnesty International,
Nigeria. She further revealed that in some
cases, security forces intimidated and harassed journalists who had asked
probing questions or expressed critical opinions of government policies. Ojigho added that in some states
authorities used security agencies to harass, intimidate and target bloggers
and silence dissenting opinions. The Chairman Board of Amnesty
International, Nigeria, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani said there is no way Nigeria’s
democracy can survive with the kind of repression and shrinking space for press
freedom in Nigeria. He stressed that the media and
journalists are tasked by the Constitution to help expose corruption, advocate
for governance and that they are doing that with huge price. “Many of the journalists have
been put to detention, some frivolous and funny charges have been (trumped up)
against journalists, and invasion of media houses to silence them have been
going on in the country. “This is not good for democracy,
where democracy strives is where there is freedom of expression and  press
freedom. “If the press is emasculated
there is no way truth will be known. So, it is important that government allow
the media to do their job. “We also know that every media
is (bound) to be reporting based on ethical conducts of what the NUJ have.
Because every journalist and media house is to abide by the ethical conducts of
the NUJ and their own internal developed code of conduct. “So, we know that journalists
are responsible and responsive, no journalist would want to do anything that is
not in the interest of the country, so, I don’t understand the reason why some
government officials would always want to brutalize the journalists,” he
said. He encouraged journalists to
continue to do their work as an act of patriotism adding that they should not
stay away from saying the truth, as the media and civil society organizations
are the critical component that can make democracy and accountable governance
succeed. Amnesty you are right anybody critical of the government lives in fear nowadays because of intimidation and harassment feom the government. Recently IGP termed IMN as a terrorist organisation while its a known fact that the group has never canvassed for arms to be taken against tbe state let alone take up arms itself. One wonders from where the IGP derives his definition of terrorism and terrorists.