By Chimezie Godfrey The Commandant General of Nigerian
Security Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC)  Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu has called
for the continuous collaboration of security agencies and all stakeholders in
eradicating violent extremism in the country. He made the call Thursday in Abuja
at a workshop on preventing and countering violent extremism, with the theme,
“Transformational Leadership and Violent Extremism.” He said  though the fight against violent extremism
specifically Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, militancy in South-South,
armed bandit and most recently farmers- herders’ crises across various part of
Nigeria has been quite challenging, he however added that  the challenges are not insurmountable. “Without hesitation, we
recognize the much effort  of the Nigerian Army in collaboration with
other security agencies in this fight. “This is the reason for the
relative peace currently in place in the country and as we all know without
peace and security the kind of development we yearn for will continually be a
mirage. “Irrespective of efforts and
achievements recorded so far in the area of preventing and countering violence
extremism by RIAPS, NSCDC, and other peace loving agencies/ organizations, it
is equally important to emphasize that continuous and unrelenting effort of all
stakeholders is crucial to eradicating violence extremism in Nigeria, ” he
said. He stressed that facilitation of
periodic congregation of critical stakeholders for discourse of 
preventing and countering violence extremism is an essential routes to 
putting the country on the path to lasting peace and security. He gave the assurance that the NSCDC
remains committed and proactive in the preventing and countering of violent
extremism in Nigeria. The Inspector General of Police
(IGP)  Àdamu Mohammed who was represented by SP, Nwafor Ernest from the
Department of Operations Force Headquarters Abuja, said that security is
everybody’s business. He said the program is an evidence
that the security agencies are working in collaboration and that the civilians
are equally becoming increasingly aware of their responsibilities in the
security management. The Founder, Royal Initiative
Against Poverty and Starvation,(RIAPS), James Okpanachi  who was the
concerner of the event said that there is a connection between leadership and
violent extremism, adding that it is why they have chosen to harmonize and
bridge the gap between the two . “We understand that there is a
connection between leadership and violent extremism and we have consciously
chosen  the word transformational leadership. “This is because not
every leadership leads to transformation
and  in my opinion leadership that can not bring about change need to be
changed. “So, we are here not just to
talk about the what but to talk about the how and there is that connection
between leadership and violent extremism and those are the doors we want to
close today and connect. “We have been dealing with
countering violent extremism, now in terms of improving that and making sure we
can drive through the policies and the strategies is the reason we added transformational
leadership. “This is because we know that
without leadership, you cannot drive that vision into reality and its
implementation,” Okpanachi said. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.