The
Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has condemned the
attacks on the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, Comrade Adams
Oshiomhole in Benin City, Edo State. 
Omo-Agege said this in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and
Publicity, Mr. Yomi Odunuga, in Abuja on Sunday. 
Describing the development as callous, cowardly, inhumane and totally
unacceptable that should be condemned by all, he noted that political practice
in the country should not be allowed to degenerate to a situation where
violence becomes the language of activism by both politicians and their
supporters no matter how disgruntled such persons may be. 
Oshiomhole was reported to have escaped a major attempt on his life by armed
thugs who swooped on his Benin residence in Okorotun Street, GRA, on Saturday.
The thugs were said to have shot sporadically into the air. 
The lawmaker called on the police to fish out the perpetrators and bring them
to book. 
This, he noted, will serve as a deterrent to others that political violence is
not the best way to resolve conflicts, if any. 
“Such criminal attack, remains utterly condemnable and illegal. Whatever
their grievances, they should learn to explore dialogue rather than resort to
violence. 
” I call on the police to get to the root of the matter by prosecuting
those involved in the act. It is my belief that the fine principles and ethos
of democratic practice do have inbuilt mechanisms through which internal
wranglings can be resolved without recourse to violence as it was the case in
Edo State on Saturday. 
“I would like to call on the parties involved to explore those options
that would strengthen the party as entrenched in the constitution of the APC as
that is the best way to move the state and the nation to the Next Level in
which all citizens are expected to reap the dividends of the trust they reposed
in the government led by President Muhammadu Buhari”, he stated. 
Omo-Agege also called on parents to warn their wards against political
violence, adding that the attack negated democratic principles. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.