Speaker of the House of
Representatives Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila has said that with  the right candidates with good ideas, funding
and organisation, more Nigerian women would get elected into political offices. Gbajabiamila said, as a politician,
he believes that Nigerian women could also engage in more advocacy, lobby,
peaceful protests, among others to drive home their point to get into more
elective positions. In an address as a keynote speaker
at a WIMPOL Dialogue organised by the Women in Management, Business and Public
Service (WimBiz) on Saturday in Abuja, Gbajabiamila said he believes Nigerian
women have a lot to offer in politics and governance. “In my experience,
elections are generally won on four things: candidate, ideas, funding and
organisation. I believe that if we recruit more inspired candidates, fund them
and provide them organisational support to effectively manage their political
operations, we will get more women to participate in electoral politics. “I have heard it said that we
can achieve increased gender participation in politics by imposing quotas and
allocating elective political office. We cannot on the one hand advocate for a
new kind of politics dependent on respect for the basic human right of all
people to choose their leaders in free and fair elections without interference
and imposition, and on the other hand, argue for the imposition of quotas in
elective office. “This is a fundamentally
anti-democratic idea, and the proposition collapses under the weight of its
contradictions. The constitution of Nigeria, imperfect as it may be, does not
impose any restrictions on women’s participation in politics. Infact, the constitution
expressly prohibits any gender-based discrimination. “Therefore, any conversations
around gender quotas in political office cannot occur outside of a
constitutional amendment. I worry that the peculiar history of our country is
such that we are unlikely to achieve a more equitable society by amending the
constitution to accommodate discriminatory practices no matter how well-meaning
our motivations may be. The fault lines in our society are too deep, our
unresolved conflicts are so great that the worst consequences of such attempts
will arrive sooner than our best aspirations no matter how deeply held they
might be. “The bulk of the work of
getting more women to participate in politics and ensuring that more of them
can win electoral office will happen within the political parties in the
country,” the Speaker said and encouraged women to register and belong to
political parties and participate fully for their voices to be heard. Speaker Gbajabiamila also said that
he would recommend to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All
Progressive Congress (APC) the creation of a special fund for women to sponsor
their political activities. Gbajabiamila, who said he owes his
participation and success in politics to his mother who stood doggedly for him,
added that Nigerian women should also strive towards addressing the issue of
cultural impediments that tend to discriminate against them. “I will at the next National
Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the political party to which I belong, the
All Progressives Congress (APC), propose the creation of a special Women’s
Victory Fund to support efforts to recruit more women who will contest
elections on the platform of the party. The Victory Fund will allow the party,
independent of its other activities, to engage with organisations such as
WIMBIZ to identify willing and capable women from all works of life to contest
for elections at all levels of governance. “Through this fund, we will
provide them with training, support services and assistance with the enormous
funding requirements of electoral contests. This fund will be credited from a
percentage of the income from the sale of nomination and expression of interest
forms by the party. I encourage leaders of the other national political parties
to consider and implement similar proposals. “In Nigeria, we contend with a
culture that has created, and too often continues to encourage and tolerate
practices that disenfranchise our women, limit educational and economic
opportunities available to them and restrict their ability to reach their
highest potential. And it is here, that any and all successful efforts at
reform must begin because our present circumstances are not a function of
statutory obstacles for women who wish to participate in politics or the
absence of laws that protect your interest in this regard.” He said the 9th House has made
gender equality a cardinal point of its legislative agenda, which was unveiled
on Friday, adding that he would personally champion the course of women in the
House, including spearheading constitutional amendment. “My participation in politics
is a legacy of my mother and I owe my achievements in this arena to her. Now, I
am a father of daughters for whom I hold the highest ambitions. At the end of
my career in politics, it is my hope that I would have contributed
constructively to the achievement of a society where my daughters and all our
daughters can live up to their highest aspirations, freed from discrimination on
the basis of their gender, and protected from the worst consequences of our
patriarchal society.” Like!! Great article post.Really thank you! Really Cool.