The Philippines on Monday reported the third confirmed case of polio in the country, more than a month after the re-emergence of the highly contagious disease. The patient is a 4-year-old girl from the town of Datu Piang in Maguindanao province, 925 kilometres south of Manila, Health Secretary, Francisco Duque, said in a statement. The girl was brought to the hospital on Sept. 26 for a sudden onset of paralysis. “On Oct. 23, stool samples sent to the National Institute of Infectious Disease in Japan tested positive for vaccine-derived poliovirus 2,’’ Duque said. The virus found in the third patient was “genetically linked’’ to the virus from the first case in nearby Lanao Del Sur province, he said. The Department of Health announced on Sept. 19 that polio has re-emerged in the Philippines, 19 years after the World Health Organisation declared the country free of the disease. The first case was a three-year-old girl from Lanao del Sur, while the second case was a five-year-old boy from Laguna province, just south of Manila. The department has been holding door-to-door vaccination campaigns in various parts of the country to immunise more children against the disease. There is no cure for polio, but it can be prevented with vaccination. While polio is rarely fatal, it causes paralysis. “I encourage all parents and guardians, to ensure that all of your children are protected from all vaccine-preventable diseases,’’ Duque said. Health experts blamed low immunisation coverage, vaccine hesitancy, complacency, logistical concerns and busy lifestyles as some of the causes for disease outbreaks. (dpa/NAN) China has reported a slowdown in new coronavirus infections over the past day, while new cases in South Korea jumped higher again to over 5,000, health authorities said on Tuesday. China’s National Health Commission counted 125 new coronavirus cases in the past day the lowest number since January 20. Meanwhile,… March 4, 2020 In "Health" Delta State Governor, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan has identified activities of Boko Haram members as potential threat against the eradication of polio in Nigeria and called for vigilance from states where there are no incidences of polio virus. Governor Uduaghan made the observation Thursday in Sapele during the 2014 First Quarter… March 20, 2014 In "Civil Society" By Abdallah el-Kurebe, Editor The Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib has said that Nigeria might be certified polio-free in next 11 months, if access to insecure areas in Borno, and some parts of the North-East improved. He disclosed this on Monday in… October 29, 2018 In "Health" Wonderful blog! I found it while searching on Yahoo News.
Do you have any suggestions on how to get listed in Yahoo News? I’ve been trying for a while but I never seem to get there!
Many thanks Hi to all, the contents present at this site are truly amazing for people experience, well, keep up the nice work fellows. Does your site have a contact page? I’m having a tough time locating it but, I’d
like to shoot you an email. I’ve got some creative ideas
for your blog you might be interested in hearing.
Either way, great website and I look forward to seeing it grow
over time. With havin so much written content do you ever run into any problems
of plagorism or copyright infringement? My blog has
a lot of completely unique content I’ve either authored myself or outsourced but it seems a lot of it
is popping it up all over the internet without my
permission. Do you know any solutions to help stop content from
being stolen? I’d really appreciate it.