FEATURE: (cdspnigeria.com): While speaking to the Council of Traditional Rulers in the historic Eastern Regional Assembly building, where the consultative Forum once moved the motion to declare the independence of defunct Republic of Biafra in May 1967, General LA Adegboye’s voice was laden with burdens of history, responsibility for the present challenges and the vision of the future. In rare Churchillian dexterity, the General employed his oratory prowess in marshaling  his deep understanding of the security challenges facing the East and seized on his popularity among them to rally their support. He assured the traditional rulers that he will not sit in his office but
will lead from the front, smoking out the criminals from every nook and cranny
to make sure that the good people of the East go about their normal businesses
unmolested. He said: “Nigerian Army is the Army of the people of Nigeria, it is
your Army, and we are here to protect you and your properties against the
criminal elements who seek to undermine your safety, and peace, order and good
governance of our nation Nigeria, We will be awake while you sleep, to ensure
that your peace and safety is unhindered”. The Ag. GOC informed them that he was there on the order of the Chief of
Army Staff, General TY Buratai, to assure the people of the East that the
oncoming “Exercise Atilogwu Udo” (the Magical dance of Peace) is not targeted
at the peace loving people of the eastern Nigeria but is aimed at denying the
criminal elements within the society the latitude to take advantage of mass
movements of money and people from all over the world into the East during the
“….mber” months. He emphasized: “the safety of lives and properties of the
peace loving easterners and the their returning kinsmen and women are at the
epicenter of “Exercise Atilogwu Udo” The Ag. GOC assured the people that his troops are professionally minded and
will go about their duties with highest degree of civility and responsiveness
in line with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, General TY Buratai, but in
any case, misconduct by any of his men should be promptly reported to him to
enable him investigate and punish accordingly. The traditional Rulers who were moved by the spirits of brotherliness,
service and nationalism espoused by General Adegboye responded with
overwhelming supports for the Nigerian Army. In his response, an overjoyed
chairman of Enugu state council of Traditional Rulers, His Royal Majesty, Amb.
Agubuzo, thanked the Chief of Army staff for sending General Adegboye back to
Enugu to command 82 Division after his successes as the commander 82 Division
Garrison. His Royal Majesty eulogized Gen. Adegboye as a true nationalist and a
professional soldier well loved in the East for his great success in combating
criminals and militias. He touted the appointment of General Adegboye to
command 82 Division as the single most important decision the Chief of Army
staff has made to rid the East of kidnappers and other criminal elements. In
the same vein, other highly elated traditional Rulers Eulogized the Nigerian
Army’s leadership for this magic wand; His Royal Majesty Onyaha Nwanjokwu said:
“today we are witnessing the new face of Nigerian Army, an Army that is
determined to protect the people and their properties.” The event which is historical in many aspects aroused a new
dimension of national spirit when His Royal Highness. Prof SC. Ukpabi, the
first provost of the Nigerian Defence Academy, was called upon to give vote of
thanks. The retired Professor was almost moved to tears when a highly elated
Ag. GOC, General Adegboye reminded him that he was one of his cadets during his
days as the provost, and thanked him for the role he played in building him
into the general he has become today. He thanked HRH for his service to Nigeria
and especially to the Nigerian military, and said that he has looked forward to
having the opportunity to thank Prof. Ukpabi for his leadership and
encouragement throughout his days as a cadet under him. The Prof equally
praised General Adegboye whom he said he is very proud of his achievement and
popularity amongst the easterners. He reminded General Adegboye that he is the
first Army General to address the Traditional Ruler’s Council in the Hallowed
Chamber of the Eastern Region Traditional Ruler’s Council which should not be
taken lightly. He thanked the Nigerian Army for thinking it wise to reengineer
a synergy with the eastern communities represented by their Traditional Rulers
and assured the General that his messages having been received in good faith
will be met with overwhelming support from the easterners. (First reported and published by cdspnigeria.com. Culled
from https://cdspnigeria.com/blog/?p=1435)