The leadership of Nigerian Community
Movement Party (NCMP), has rejected suggestion by the country’s upper
legislative chamber to reduce the number of political parties from 91 to 5,
saying the senate should rather help the nation save scare financial resources
by cutting its seats from 109 to “a more reasonable size”. The NCMP stated this in a press
statement signed by its National Chairman, Comrade Babatunde Ademola, and made
available Newsdiaryonline. It quoted Comrade Ademola, as saying
that members of “the 9th Assembly should take notice that, none of sitting in
chamber became a senator of the Federal Republic without political parties, it
becomes ridiculous therefore, to cripple the same vehicles that brought you to
power because of obvious pursuit of personal agenda.” He also pointed out that “we doubt
if some members of the current Senate would have been sitting and sleeping in
the Red Chamber as it is often noticed if Nigeria had operated a two  or
five party system as blindly advocated. “The 9th Assembly should spell out
their fears, as the hitherto voiceless and constraint Nigerians are now having
platforms to make their statement known. Why being afraid of a possible change
in the narrative as year 2023 approaches? “Since Nigerians now have the
opportunity to settle down for credible political parties, that will promote
and truly protect the interest of the masses after the poor performance of the
two regular actors, there is need for the upper legislative chamber to guide
the institutions of political parties jealously.” The Chairman further stated that “a
reduction in the number of political parties to five is never a solution rather
a shameful ambition and should not be nursed by an Arm of Government, which by
its nature cannot function optimally without political parties. “The  Senator Ahmed Lawan led
Senate should profess exemplary qualities since it is being headed by a season
politician with more than a decade wealth of experience in legislative activism
rather than moves that are not prioritized among numerous obstacles bedeviling
our dear Nation at this current time.” According to him “some of them
should also know that evidence abounds of their role as products of political
parties that destroyed the credibility of our electoral process and the image
of INEC in the 2019 general elections. “Some of them sited in that chamber
today were alleged to have forcefully made INEC employees announced them as
winners. There is the need for the National Assembly to stop being petty, but
professional in their approach to strengthen our democracy. They should not use
their selfish ambitions and interest to destroy what was built for the
collective well-being of all Nigerians. It is unconstitutional, absolutely undemocratic
and an attempt to steal away our voices.” The NCMP then called on Nigerians to
resist the move “inglorious move of the Senate to silence the emergence of the
children of ordinary  people in our political landscape…, the NCMP is
using this medium to call on all National Chairmen of political parties to
mobilize en mass all members of their parties and fellow Nigerians and lovers
of democracy to stand up against this purported daylight rape of our freedom of
association and make sure that the voice of the children of the poor masses is
not silenced.” Comrade Ademola, according to the release
also asked the Senators: “Why not sponsor Bills to know the exact state of the
Treasury Single Account (TSA) and recovered loots since the APC lead Federal
Government came on board”. It added that the upper legislative
chamber should busy itself with how to cut suffocating financial cost of
running the National Assembly which the party said is becoming more unacceptable
considering Nigeria’s need to make huge investment in the area of
infrastructure, healthcare, strengthening of government institutions among
other pressing    needs of the country. The party stated that the Senators
will do well to think out of the box with a view to reducing their numbers as
well as large number of aides, fleets of highly expensive automobiles and their
culture of ostentatious materialism which is being fueled by Nigerians
commonwealth. Newsdiaryonline recalls that the
upper chamber had on October 9, at a meeting with the leadership of the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) led by its chairman, Professor
Mahmood Yakubu, hinted that it would reduce the number of political parties in
the country from the current 91 to five through legislation. Earlier, former governor and
currently a federal lawmaker, Senator Rochas Okorocha, (APC-Imo West) called
for a reduction in the number of legislators saying one senator and three House
of Representative members from each of the country’s 36 states and the Federal
Capital Territory (FCT ) Abuja, would help cut cost and ensure effective
representation. In the same vein, Okorocha, said he
would sponsor a bill that would seek for the reduction, pointing out that “a
senator and three House members can do what many have been doing”. Like!! Thank you for publishing this awesome article.