If a President cannot address a
family problem before it goes public, how can he address the herculean task of
governance and nation-building? This has been my concern since the rumour
mongers went to town with marriage speculation in the Presidency. Frankly speaking, the media handlers
of President Muhammadu Buhari did not manage the rumour on his purported
wedding plan with his Humanitarian Affairs Minister, Sadiya Umar Farouq. Before the return of the First Lady,
Aisha Buhari to Nigeria, various social media platforms were flooded with
congratulatory messages and purported pre-wedding pictures of the President and
his minister. The captivating images of the couple, set tongues wagging on what
could be the fate of the First Lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari who was then abroad. Some media reports gossiped that the
First Lady had a running battle with her husband on the activities of the
overbearing influence of the so-called Cabals who are alleged to be calling the
shots in the Villa and the Presidency. As a matter of fact, Aisha’s long
stay for more than two months in Saudi Arabia and London, further fuelled the
speculation that she must have been side-lined in the scheme of things in her
husband’s government which she played prominent roles to its electoral
successes. Most of state and diplomatic functions,
she was invited to grace, her Senior Special Assistant, Dr Hajo Sani, performed
the roles on her behalf especially at the UN High-Level Meeting on
Tuberculosis, at the Global Empowerment Movement and at the Organization of
African First Ladies for Development (OAFLAD) meeting in New York. However, in an attempt to clear the
air and debunk all speculations on the absence of the first lady, her Director
of Information, Mr Suleiman Haruna, said the President’s wife has the freedom
to travel to wherever she wanted, as a free citizen. Haruna said, Aisha as a free
Nigerian, who is not a government official, could travel for private
engagements both within and outside the country, adding that the reasons for
such trips must not be tied to “needless speculation or rumours.” In a dramatic twist, on her return
to Nigeria, Aisha triggered a controversy in an interview she granted the BBC
when she commented on the purported marriage arrangement. When asked about the rumour, she
said: “I’m not the one who was getting married. It was the president. So, you
should have asked him whether it is true or not. But the person who was told
the president will marry her, the people that told her the president will marry
her, she never thought the wedding will not hold, because she waited and when
it never held she came out to dispute it.” The Aisha’s comment merely insinuate
that members of the cabal could be behind the rumoured marriage. In an immediate reaction to the
First Lady’s interview, Fatima Abdulmutallab, the daughter of Buhari’s nephew,
Mamman Daura, absolved her family from the marriage saga. Fatima whose father was fingered as
allegedly being the brain behind the plan for the marriage, said: “Wallahi, it
is a lie. It is all part of what I am saying about the false allegations
against our father. He is not even aware of the rumours about the marriage
issue because he doesn’t use the social media. “They (Buhari and Daura) are
both monogamous. Both my dad and the president practice monogamy. They are all
lies aimed at blackmailing him. They keep falsely accusing him. It does not
tally with reason,” she said. Another altercation within the First
Family are allegations and counter-allegations over allocations of rooms in the
Aso Villa to extended family members. Disturbed by the allegations, the
opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) asked the National Assembly to
investigate and sanction President Buhari for assigning official facilities in
the Presidential villa to unauthorised persons that have no official roles in
governance. The Party also described the fight
between the First Lady, Aisha Buhari and the President’s cousins, over rooms in
the Presidential villa, as distasteful, saying the development further
underlined the managerial ineptitude and leadership failures of the Buhari
Presidency. In view of the melodrama, some
concerned citizens continue to ask the following questions: What is the current
relationship between the President and his wife? Are extended family involved in
the fracas? What are the levels of their involvements? Could the seeming
division within the First Family affect governance? Is the crisis a deliberate
ploy for distractions to achieve some ulterior motives? In a country where rumours have a
way of shaping future events, one would have expected an official statement to
clear the air on all these worrisome developments. My take in all these, is the fact
that the President has a right to his personal life, but not at the nation’s
expenses when the country is yet to resolve national maladies  including
rampant cases of kidnapping, armed banditry, terrorism, economic challenges and
incessant strike of labour and academic staffs. Rather than washing their dirty
linens in the public, the family members of President Buhari should resolve
their domestic squabbles within the confine of their homes without inundating
Nigerians with tales akin to reality show of Big Brother. Gidado Yushau Shuaib, editor of
Youths Digest & The News Digest, can be reached on giddyshuaib@gmail.com. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.