By Chimezie Godfrey The former INEC Chairman, Attahiru
Jega has said that enhancement of electoral integrity is key to safeguarding
the peoples will for democratic development and sustainability in Nigeria. He made this assertion on Wednesday
in Abuja while delivering a key note address at the TELL 20 Years of Democracy
Conference 2019, tagged, ” Democracy And the Rule of Law.” He said,”Crass lack of
electoral integrity has been the name of civil rule, transitions to democratic
rule, governance and development in Nigeria. “Electoral malfeasance and
malpractices have historically undermined the conduct of free, fair and
credible elections, have rendered the electorate powerless and have thereby
significantly eroded public trust and confidence in the electoral process. “It is only by restoring
electoral integrity into the electoral process that we can appropriately
safeguard the will of the Nigerian people for democracy to thrive.” Jega said that the Nigerian
electoral process has historically been flawed and replete with profound
challenges in various ways which includes inadequate legal framework for
conduct of elections, insufficient funding for elections, and insufficient
public sensitization and enlightenment, among others. He stressed that enhancement of
electoral integrity is key to safeguarding peoples will for democratic
development and sustainability, saying that it is only regularly conducted
elections with integrity that nurture and consolidate true representative
democracy. On the  issue of insecurity, he
said that country like Nigeria that is faced with systemic security challenges
will require the deployment of all security agencies in the electoral process,
but added that the roles of each security agencies have to be carefully
defined. The Chairman Board of Directors of
TELL Communications, Adeniyi Lasaki revealed that a lot has happened on the
sustenance of democracy in the last twenty years. He said that Nigeria has taken
false steps, stumbled and fallen when it is supposed to move with speed. He however, expressed optimism that
while Nigeria may not be cruising at the expected high speed, that the hope of
a better future is more alive today Also, speaking, the Chief Executive
Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema said that Nigerians may not have the
democracy they desire they continue to apply ethnic sentiment in the political
process. He urged Nigerians to embrace broad
nationalism rather than ethnic nationalism, adding that if Nigerians do not put
a stop on ethnic sentiment in its political process, the kind of democracy that
Nigerians are looking for will become a ruse. Dignitaries who were represented at
the event includes Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Governor of Sokoto
state, Aminu Tambuwa, among others. Like!! I blog quite often and I genuinely thank you for your information. The article has truly peaked my interest.