The
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday October 23, 2019,
presented the 14th prosecution witness 14 (PW14), a Union Bank
branch manager,  Adesegun Timothy, against the former Head of Service
(HoS), Stephen Oronsanye and three others in the alleged N2billion fraud
levelled against them by the Commission. The
EFCC is prosecuting Oronsanye alongside Osarenkhoe Afe, managing director,
Fredrick Hamilton Global Services Limited, the company and one other before
Justice I E Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja for their alleged complicity
in several contract award scams during Oronsanye’s tenure as HoS. Led
in evidence at the resumed sitting, by prosecution counsel, O. A. Atolagbe,
Timothy, whose job schedule as the bank manager included overseeing all banking
activities on a day-to-day basis stated that “In 2016, the bank provided
statement of accounts, mandates, certificate of verification to the EFCC and
this was duly stamped by the bank in respect to the pension payment account of
the Office of the Head of Service.” Earlier
on Tuesday, Atolagbe presented the prosecution witness 13 (PW13), Mr. Eric
Chukwu Emeka, a retired director in the Audit Department of the Office of the
Head of Service, who  narrated how the then Auditor General of the
Federation mandated his department to carry out an investigative audit report
from 2005 to 2010, which unearthed a can of worms against the Office of the
HoS. The
witness told the court that while performing the exercise on the pension
payment accounts, he discovered several irregularities, including multiple
beneficiaries, without cash books, nor payment narrative on bank transfers
disbursed to beneficiaries. “Our
report highlighted this grave error and we brought this to the attention to the
Auditor General. While recommendations were made, we held that the Office of
the Head of Service had a lot of irregularities on the monthly pension payments
and suggested that this should be addressed,” he said. “We
did not see any payment that reflected the payment for biometric capture in the
36 states and there were many grey areas on payments made to the tune of
N2billion. We experienced several hiccups while demanding support documents
from the accounts department and realized that several payment vouchers and
files were missing. The files processed ought to be sequential but sometimes
there could only be one or two files for a certain payment for the entire
year.” Mr.
Emeka further stated that there were gaps in the due processes, which they
identified and recommended in their overall report. He
told the court that huge financial misappropriations were observed and recorded
in the detailed report, which was thereafter submitted and certified by the
Auditor General. Atolagbe,
the 14th witness sought to tender the report but Oronsanye’s
counsel, Joe Agi SAN, and Oluwole Aladedoye, counsel for Afe and Fredrick
Hamilton Global Services Limited, objected to the admissibility of the document,
stating that the said documents were rejected by the former trial judge for
lack of credibility. However,
Justice Ekwo admitted the special investigative audit report on the pension
accounts and a letter from the Auditor General, that authorised the audit
exercise. After
the 496 pages document  was tendered by the prosecution on Wednesday,
October 23, 2019, the Judge adjourned the matter till December 2, 3 and 4,
2019, for continuation of trial. Like!! I blog frequently and I really thank you for your content. The article has truly peaked my interest.